168 
 
224. (1) A rights issue shall be open for subscription in India for a period as applicable under the 
laws of its home country but in no case less than ten days. 
(2) The issuing company shall ensure that it sends the allotment letter of rights to IDR holders at 
the time these are sent to shareholders of the issuing company as per the requirement of its home 
country or other jurisdictions where its securities are listed. 
 
Utilisation of funds  
225. The issuer shall utilise funds raised in relation to the IDRs pursuant to the rights offering 
only upon completion of the allotment process. 
 
Fast track issue 
226. (1) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (1) of regulation 221, (1), (2) and (3) of regulation 
222 shall apply, if the issuer satisfies the following conditions: 
a) the issuer is in compliance in all material respects with the provisions of deposit agreement 
and the provi sions of listing agreements (or listing conditions) applicable in all the 
jurisdictions wherever the issuer is listed, for a period of at least three years immediately 
preceding the date of filing of the offer document, and a certification to this effect i s 
provided by the issuer;  
b) the offer document for the rights offering of the securities of the issuer has been filed and 
reviewed by the securities regulator in the home country of the issuer;  
c) there are no pending show -cause notices or prosecution proceed ings against the issuer or its 
promoters, where applicable, or whole time directors on the reference date by the Board or 
the regulatory authorities in its home country restricting them from accessing the capital 
markets; and 
d) the issuer has redressed at least ninety five per cent. of the complaints received from the IDR 
holders before the end of the three months period immediately preceding the month of date 
of filing the letter of offer with the designated stock exchange. 
(2) Where the conditions in sub -regulation (1) are satisfied, the issuer may opt for rights issue of 
IDRs by filing a copy of the offer document prepared in accordance with the home country 
requirements along with an addendum containing disclosures as specified in Part C of Schedule 
VIII with the Board for record purposes, before filing the same with the stock exchanges. 
 
CHAPTER IX - INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER BY SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES 
 
Reference date 

169 
 
227. Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, an issuer making an initial public offer of 
specified securities shall satisfy the conditions of this Chapter as on the date of filing of the draft 
offer document with the SME exchange and also as on the date of 383[filing] the offer document 
with the Registrar of Companies.  
 
PART I: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS  
 
Entities not eligible to make an initial public offer 
228.  An issuer shall not be eligible to make an initial public offer:   
(a) if the issuer, any of its promoters, promoter group or directors or selling shareholders are 
debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board;  
(b) if any of the promoters or directors of the issuer is a promoter or director of any other 
company which is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board;  
(c) if the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a  384[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent 
borrower]. 
(d) if any of its promoters or directors is a fugitive economic offender 385[;]   
386[(e)  if there are any outstanding convertible securities or any other right which would entitle any 
person with any option to receive equity shares of the issuer: 
Provided that the provisions of this clause shall not apply to: 
(i) outstanding options granted to employees, whether currently an employee or 
not, pursuant to an employee stock option scheme in compliance with the 
Companies Act, 2013, the relevant Guidance Note or accounting standards, if any, 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or pursuant to the 
Companies Act, 2013, in this regard; 
(ii) fully paid -up outstanding convertible securities which are requi red to be 
converted on or before the date of filing of the red herring prospectus (in case of 
book-built issues) or the prospectus (in case of fixed price issues), as the case may 
be.] 
 
 
383 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. 
384 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”. 
385 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Is sue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”. 
386 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

170 
 
Explanation: The  restrictions under clauses (a) and (b) shall not apply  to the persons or 
entities mentioned therein, who were debarred in the past by the Board and  the period of 
debarment is already over as on the date of filing of the draft offer document with the SME 
Exchange.  
 
Eligibility requirements for an initial public offer 
229. (1) An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer only if its  post -issue paid-up 
capital  is less than or equal to ten crore rupees.  
(2) An issuer, whose post iss ue 387[paid-up] capital is more than ten crore rupees and upto twenty 
five crore rupees, may also issue specified securities in accordance with provisions of this 
Chapter. 
(3) An issuer may make an initial public offer, if it satisfies track record  and/or other eligibility 
conditions of the SME Exchange(s) on which the specified securities are proposed to be listed. 
Provided that  In case of an issuer which had been a partnership firm or a limited liability 
partnership, the track record of operating profit of the partnership firm or the limited liability 
partnership shall be considered only if the financial statements of the partnership business for the 
period during which the issuer was a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership, conform t o 
and are revised in the format prescribed for companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and also 
comply with the following: 
a) adequate disclosures are made in the financial statements as required to be made by the 
issuer as per Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013;  
b) the financial statements are duly certified by auditors, who have subjected themselves to 
the peer review process of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and hold 
a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board‘ of the ICAI , stating that: (i) the 
accounts and the disclosures made are in accordance with the provisions of Schedule III of 
the Companies Act, 2013; (ii) the accounting standards prescribed under the Companies 
Act, 2013 have been followed; (iii) the financial state ments present a true and fair view of 
the firm‘s accounts;  
Provided further that  in case of an issuer formed out of merger or a division of an existing 
company, the track record of the resulting issuer shall be considered only if the requirements 
regarding financial statements as specified above in the first proviso are complied with. 
 
 
 
387 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure R equirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”. 

171 
 
388[(4) In case of an issuer, which had been a proprietorship or a partnership firm or a limited liability 
partnership before conversion to a company or body corporate, such i ssuer may make an initial 
public offer only if the issuer company has been in existence for at least one full financial year 
before filing of draft offer document: 
Provided that the restated financial statements of the issuer company prepared post conversi on 
shall be in accordance with Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013. 
(5)  In cases where there is a complete change of promoter of the issuer or there are new 
promoter(s) of the issuer who have acquired more than fifty per cent of the shareholding of th e 
issuer, the issuer shall file draft offer document only after a period of one year from the date of 
such final change(s).  
(6) An issuer may make an initial public offer, only if the issuer had minimum operating profits 
(earnings before interest, depreci ation and tax) of ₹1 crore from operations for at least two out of 
the three previous financial years.]  
 
General conditions  
230. (1) An issuer making an initial public offer shall ensure that: 
(a)  it has made an application to one or more SME exchanges for listing of its specified securities 
on such SME exchange(s) and has chosen one of them as the designated stock exchange, in 
terms of Schedule XIX:  
(b) it has entered into an agreement with a depository for dematerialisation of its specified 
securities already issued and proposed to be issued;  
(c) all its existing partly paid-up equity shares have either been fully paid-up or forfeited; 
(d) all specified securities held by the promoters are in the dematerialised form;  
(e) it has made firm arrangements of finance thro ugh verifiable means towards seventy five per 
cent. of the stated means of finance for the project proposed to be funded from the issue 
proceeds, excluding the amount to be raised through the proposed public offer  or through 
existing identifiable internal accruals389[:] 
390[Provided that if there is a requirement of firm arrangement and the proje ct is partially 
funded by the bank(s) / financial i nstitution(s), the details regarding sanction letter(s) fro m 
 
 
388 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
389 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”. 
390 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requi rements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

172 
 
the bank(s)/ financial i nstitution(s) shall be disclose d in the draft of fer document and offer 
document.] 
Explanation: “project” means the object for which monies are proposed to be raised to 
cover the objects of the issue 
391[(f)  the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders shall not exceed twenty per c ent of the total 
issue size; 
(g)   the shares being offered for sale by selling shareholders shall not exceed fifty per cent of 
such selling shareholders’ pre-issue shareholding on a fully diluted basis; 
(h)   its objects of the issue should not consist of  repayment of loan taken from promoter, 
promoter group or any related party, from the issue proceeds, directly or indirectly.] 
 
(2) The amo unt for general corporate purposes, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft 
offer document and the offer document shall not exceed 392[fifteen] per cent. of the amount 
being raised by the issuer 393[or ₹10 crores, whichever is less]. 
394[(3) The amount for: 
(i) general corporate purposes, and  
(ii) such objects where the issuer company has not identified acquisition or investment 
target, as mentioned in objects of the issue in the draft offer document and the 
offer document,  
shall not exceed thirty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the issuer: 
Provided that the amount raised for such objects where the issuer company has not identified 
acquisition or investment target, as mentioned in objects of the issue  in the draft offer document 
and the offer document, shall not exceed twenty five per cent. of the amount being raised by the 
issuer: 
Provided further that such limits shall not apply if the proposed acquisition or strategic investment  
object  has  been  identified  and  suitable  specific  disclosures  about  such acquisitions or 
 
 
391 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
392 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “twenty five”. 
393 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
394 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 

173 
 
investments are made in the draft offer document and the offer document at the time of filing of 
offer documents.] 
 
PART II: ISSUE OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND WARRANTS  
231.  An issuer shall be eligible to make an initial public offer of convertible debt instruments 
even without making a prior public issue of its equity shares and listing thereof. 
Provided that an issuer shall not be eligible if it is in default of payment  of interest or repayment 
of principal amount in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of 
more than six months.  
 
Additional requirements for issue of convertible debt instruments 
232. (1) In addition to other require ments laid down in these regulations, an issuer making an 
initial public offer of convertible debt instruments shall also comply with the following 
conditions:  
a) it has obtained credit rating from at least one credit rating agency; 
b) it has appointed at least  one debenture trustees in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) 
Regulations, 1993;  
c) it shall create a debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of  the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder;  
d) if the issuer proposes to create a charge or security on its assets in respect of secured 
convertible debt instruments, it shall ensure that: 
i) such assets are sufficient to discharge the principal amount at all times; 
ii) such assets are free from any encumbrance; 
iii) where security is already created on such assets in favour of any existing lender or 
security trustee or the issue of convertible debt instruments is proposed to be secured 
by creation of securit y on a leasehold land, the consent of such lender or security 
trustee or lessor for a second or pari passu charge has been obtained and submitted to 
the debenture trustee before the opening of the issue; 
iv) the security or asset cover shall be arrived at after reduction of the liabilities having a 
first or prior charge, in case the convertible debt instruments are secured by a second 
or subsequent charge. 
(2) The issuer shall redeem the convertible debt instruments as stipulated in the offer document. 
 
Conversion of optionally convertible debt instruments into equity share capital 

174 
 
233. (1) The issuer shall not convert its optionally convertible debt instruments into equity shares 
unless the holders of such convertible debt instruments have sent their positive c onsent to the 
issuer and non -receipt of reply to any notice sent by the issuer for this purpose shall not be 
construed as consent for conversion of any convertible debt instruments.  
(2) Where the value of the convertible portion of any listed convertible debt instruments issued by 
a issuer exceeds fifty lakh rupees and the issuer has not determined the conversion price of such 
convertible debt instruments at the time of making the issue, the holders of such convertible debt 
instruments shall be given the option of not converting the convertible portion into equity shares: 
Provided that  where the upper limit on the price of such convertible debt instruments and 
justification thereon is determined and disclosed to the investors at the time of making the issue, it  
shall not be necessary to give such option to the holders of the convertible debt instruments for 
converting the convertible portion into equity share capital within the said upper limit.  
(3) Where an option is to be given to the holders of the convertib le debt instruments in terms of 
sub-regulation (2) and if one or more of such holders do not exercise the option to convert the 
instruments into equity share capital at a price determined in the general meeting of the 
shareholders, the issuer shall redeem that part of the instruments within one month from the last 
date by which option is to be exercised, at a price which shall not be less than its face value. 
(4) The provision of sub -regulation (3) shall not apply if such redemption is in terms of the 
disclosures made in the offer document.  
 
Issue of convertible debt instruments for financing  
234. An issuer shall not issue convertible debt instruments for financing or for providing loans to 
or for acquiring shares of any person who is part of the promoter group or group companies;  
Provided that  an issuer shall be eligible to issue fully convertible debt instruments for these 
purposes if the period of conversion of such debt instruments is less than eighteen months from 
the date of issue of such debt instruments. 
 
Issue of warrants 
235. An issuer shall be eligible to issue warrants in an initial public offer subject to the following:  
a) the tenure of such warrants shall not exceed eighteen months from their date of allotment in 
the initial public offer; 
b) A specified security may have one or more warrants  attached to  it; 
c) the price or formula for determination of exercise price of the warrants shall be determined 
upfront and disclosed in the offer document and at least twenty -five per cent. of the 
consideration amount based on the exercise price shall also be received upfront;  

175 
 
Provided that in case the exercise price of warrants is based on a formula, twenty -five per 
cent. consideration amount based on the cap price of the price band determined for the linked 
equity shares or convertible securities shall be received upfront.; 
d) in case the warrant holder does not exercise the option to take equity shares against any of 
the warrants held by  the warrant holder, within three months from the date of payment of 
consideration, such consideration made in respect of such warrants shall be forfeited by the 
issuer.  
 
PART III:  PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION 
 
Minimum promoters’ contribution 
236. (1) The promoters of the issuer shall hold at least twenty per cent. of the post-issue capital: 
Provided that in case the post -issue shareholding of the promoters is less than twenty per cent., 
alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks 
or public financial institutions or insurance compani es registered with Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India 395[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five 
per cent. of the post -issue capital or any entity (individual or non -individual) forming part of 
promoter group  other than the promoter(s) ] may contribute to meet the shortfall in minimum 
contribution as specified for the promoters, subject to a maximum of ten per cent. of the post-issue 
capital without being identified as promoter(s); 
Provided further that the requirem ent of minimum promoters’ contribution shall not apply in case 
an issuer does not have any identifiable promoter. 
(2) The minimum promoters’ contribution shall be as follows:  
a) the promoters shall contribute twenty per cent. as stipulated sub -regulation (1), as the case 
may be, either by way of equity shares or by way of subscription to the convertible 
securities: 
Provided that  if the price of the equity shares allotted pursuant to conversion is not pre -
determined and not disclosed in the offer document, the  promoters shall contribute only by 
way of subscription to the convertible securities being issued in the public offer  and shall 
undertake in writing to subscribe to the equity shares pursuant to conversion of such 
securities.  
b) in case of any issue of conv ertible securities which are convertible or exchangeable on 
different dates and if the promoters’ contribution is by way of equity shares (conversion 
 
 
395 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of C apital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. 

176 
 
price being pre-determined), such contribution shall not be at a price lower than the weighted 
average price of the equity share capital arising out of conversion of such securities.  
c) subject to the provisions of clause (a) and (b) above, in case of an initial public offer of 
convertible debt instruments without a prior public issue of equity shares, the promoters shall 
bring in a contribution of at least twenty per cent. of the project cost in the form of equity 
shares, subject to contributing at least twenty per cent. of the issue size from its  own funds in 
the form of equity shares:  
Provided that if the project is to be implemented in stages, the promoters’ contribution shall 
be with respect to total equity participation till the respective stage vis -à-vis the debt raised 
or proposed to be raised through the public offer. 
d) The promoters shall satisfy the requ irements of this regulation at least one day prior to the 
date of opening of the issue. 
e) In case the promoters have to subscribe to equity shares or convertible securities towards 
minimum promoters’ contribution, the amount of promoters’ contribution shall be kept in an 
escrow account with a scheduled commercial bank, which shall be released to the issuer 
along with the release of the issue proceeds:  
Provided that where the promoters’ contribution has already been brought in and utilised, the 
issuer shall g ive the cash flow statement disclosing the use of such funds in the offer 
document; 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation: 
(I) Promoters’ contribution shall be computed on the basis of the post-issue expanded capital: 
(a) assuming full proposed conversion of convertible securities into equity shares; 
(b) assuming exercise of all vested options, where any employee stock options  396[or stock 
appreciation rights] are outstanding at the time of initial public offer. 
(II) For computation of “weighted average price”: 
(a) “weights” means the number of equity shares arising out of conversion of such specified 
securities into equity shares at various stages;  
(b) “price” means the price of equity shares on conversion arrived at after taking into account 
predetermined conversion price at various stages. 
 
Securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution  
237. (1) For the computation of minimum promoters’ contribution, the following specified 
securities shall not be eligible: 
 
 
396 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

177 
 
a) specified securities acquired during the preceding three years, if they are:  
(i) acquired for consideration other than cash and revaluation of assets or capitalisation of 
intangible assets is involved in such transaction; or 
(ii) resulting from a bonus issue by utilisation of revaluation reserves or unrealised profits 
of the issuer or from bonus issue against equity shares which are ineligible for 
minimum promoters’ contribution;  
b) specified securities acquired by the promoters and alternative investment funds or foreign 
venture capital investors or sc heduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or 
insurance companies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of 
India 397[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent. of the post -
issue capital or  any entity  (individual or non -individual) forming part of promoter group 
other than the promoter(s) ], during the preceding one year at a price lower than the price at 
which specified securities are being offered to the public in the initial public offer: 
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply: 
(i) 398[if the promoters and alternative investment funds or foreign venture capital 
investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance 
companies registered with Insur ance Regulatory and Development Authority of India ] 
399[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent. of the  post-
issue capital or any entity (individual or non -individual) forming part of  promoter 
group other than the promoter(s) ], as applicable, pay to the issuer the difference 
between the price at which the specified securities are offered in the initial public offer 
and the price at which the specified securities had been acquired;  
(ii) if such specified securities are acquired in t erms of the scheme under 400[***] sections 
230 to 234 of the Companies Act, 2013, as approved by a High Court or a tribunal, as 
applicable, by the promoters in lieu of business and invested capital that had been in 
existence for a period of more than one year prior to such approval;  
(iii) to an initial public offer by a government company, statutory authority or corporation or 
any special purpose vehicle set up by any of them, which is engaged in the 
infrastructure sector;  
 
 
397 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. 
398 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “if the promoters and alternative investment funds”. 
399 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. 
400 The numbers, words and symbols “ 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or ” omitted by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 
14.1.2022. 

178 
 
401[(iv) to equity shares arising from the  conversion or exchange of fully  paid-up 
compulsorily convertible securities, including depository receipts, that have been held 
by the promoters and alternative investment  funds or foreign venture capital investors 
or scheduled commercial banks or public financial institutions or insurance companies 
registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India or any non -
individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent. of the post -issue capital or 
any entity (individual or non -individual) forming part of  promoter group other than 
the promoter(s), as applicable, for a period of at least one year prior to the filing of the 
draft offer document and such  fully paid -up compulsorily convertible securities are 
converted or  exchanged into equ ity shares prior to the filing of the offer document  
(i.e., red herring prospectus in case of a book built issue and prospectus  in case of a 
fixed price issue), provided that full disclosures of the terms  of conversion or 
exchange are made in such draft offer document402[:]] 
403[Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub -regulation, it is clarified that the price per share 
for determining securities ineligible for minimum promoters’ contribution, shall be 
determined after adjusting the same for corporate action s such as share split, bonus issue, 
etc. undertaken by the issuer;] 
c) specified securities allotted to the promoters and alternative investment funds  during the 
preceding one year at a price less than the issue price, against funds brought in by them 
during that period, in case of an issuer formed by conversion of one or more partnership 
firms or limited liability partnerships, where the partners of the erstwhile partnership firms 
or limited liability partnerships are the promoters of the issuer and there is  no change in the 
management:  
Provided that  specified securities, allotted to the promoters against the capital existing in 
such firms for a period of more than one year on a continuous basis, shall be eligible; 
d) specified securities pledged with any creditor. 
(2) Specified securities referred to in clauses (a) and (c) of sub -regulation (1) shall be eligible for 
the computation of promoters’ contribution, if such securities are acquired pursuant to a scheme 
which has been approved under the Companies Act, 2013 or any previous company law.  
 
 
 
401 Inserted by the Securities and E xchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. 
402 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “;”. 
403 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

179 
 
PART IV: LOCK-IN AND RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERRABILITY  
Lock-in of specified securities held by the promoters 
238. The specified securities held by the promoters shall not be transferable (hereinafter referred 
to as ‘lock-in’) for the periods as stipulated hereunder: 
a)  minimum promoters’ contribution including contribution made by alternative investment 
funds or foreign venture capital investors or scheduled commercial banks or public financial 
institutions or insurance compa nies registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India 404[or any non-individual public shareholder holding at least five per cent. 
of the post -issue capital or any entity  (individual or non -individual) forming part of 
promoter group other than the promoter(s)], as applicable, shall be locked -in for a period of 
three years from the date of commencement of commercial production or date of allotment 
in the initial public offer, whichever is later;  
b)  promoters’ holding in excess of minim um promoters’ contribution shall be locked -in 405[as 
follows:]  
406[(i) fifty percent. of promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall 
be locked in for a pe riod of two years from the date of allotment in the initial public 
offer; and 
(ii) remaining fifty percent. of promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ 
contribution shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of allotment in the 
initial public offer.] 
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, the expression "date of commencement of 
commercial production" means the last date of the month in which commercial production of the 
project in respect of which the funds raised are propose d to be utilised as stated in the offer 
document, is expected to commence.  
 
Lock-in of specified securities held by persons other than the promoters  
239. The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than the promoters shall be locked-in for a 
period of one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer:  
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to: 
 
 
404 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue o f Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. 
405 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “for a period of one year from the date of allotment in 
the initial public offer”. 
406 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

180 
 
a) equity shares allotted to employees, whether currently an employee or not , under an 
employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme 407[or a stock appreciation right 
scheme] of the issuer prior to the initial public offer, if the issuer has made full disclosures 
with respect to such options or scheme in accordance with Part A of Schedule VI;  
b) equity shares held by a n employee stock option trust or transferred to the employees by an 
employee stock option trust pursuant to exercise of options by the employees, whether 
currently employees or not, in accordance with the employee stock option plan or employee 
stock purchase scheme 408[or a stock appreciation right scheme].  
Provided that the equity shares allotted to the employees shall be subject to the provisions of 
lock-in as specified under the 409[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021].  
c) equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of category I or 
Category II or a foreign venture capital investor: 
Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least o ne year from the 
date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund or foreign venture 
capital investor. 
410[Explanation I]: For the purpose of clause (c), in case such equity shares have resulted 
pursuant to conversion of fully pa id-up compulsorily convertible securities, the holding 
period of such convertible securities as well as that of resultant equity shares together shall 
be considered for the purpose of calculation of one year period and convertible securities 
shall be deemed to be fully paid-up, if the entire consideration payable thereon has been paid 
and no further consideration is payable at the time of their conversion. 
411[Explanation II:  For the purpose of clauses (a) and (b), equity shares shall include any 
equity shares allotted pursuant to a bonus issue against equity shares allotted pursuant to an 
employee stock option or employee stock purchase scheme or a stock appreciation right 
scheme.] 
 
Lock-in of specified securities lent to stabilising agent under the green shoe option  
 
 
407 Inserted by the S ecurities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
408 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
409 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023  for the words and symbol s “Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014”.  
410 Renamed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “Explanation”. 
411 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

181 
 
240. The lock -in provisions shall not apply with respect to the specified securities lent to 
stabilising agent for the purpose of green shoe option, during the period starting from the date of 
lending of such specified securities and ending on th e date on which they are returned to the 
lender in terms of sub-regulation (5) or (6) of regulation 279:  
Provided that the specified securities shall be locked -in for the remaining period from the date on 
which they are returned to the lender.  
 
Inscription or recording of non-transferability 
241. The certificates of specified securities which are subject to lock -in shall contain the 
inscription “non- transferable” and specify the lock-in period and in case such specified securities 
are dematerialised, the issuer shall ensure that the lock-in is recorded by the depository. 
 
Pledge of locked-in specified securities  
242. Specified securities held by the promoters and locked -in may be pledged as a collateral 
security for a loan granted by a scheduled commerci al bank or a public financial institution or a 
systemically important non -banking finance company or a housing finance company, subject to 
the following: 
a) if the specified securities are locked -in in terms of clause (a) of regulation 238, the loan has 
been granted to the issuer company or its subsidiary(ies) for the purpose of financing one or 
more of the objects of the issue and pledge of specified securities is one of the terms of 
sanction of the loan; 
b) if the specified securities are locked -in in terms of clause (b) of regulation 238 and the pledge 
of specified securities is one of the terms of sanction of the loan.  
Provided that such lock-in shall continue pursuant to the invocation of the pledge and such 
transferee shall not be eligible to transfer the s pecified securities till the lock -in period 
stipulated in these regulations has expired.  
 
Transferability of locked-in specified securities 
243. Subject to the provisions of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition 
of shares and Tak eovers) Regulations, 2011, the specified securities held by the promoters and 
locked-in as per regulation 238 may be transferred to another promoter or any person of the 
promoter group or a new promoter or a person in control of the issuer and the specifie d securities 
held by persons other than the promoters and locked -in as per regulation 239 may be transferred 
to any other person (including promoter or promoter group) holding the specified securities which 
are locked-in along with the securities proposed to be transferred:  

182 
 
Provided that the lock-in on such specified securities shall continue for the remaining period with 
the transferee and such transferee shall not be eligible to transfer them till the lock -in period 
stipulated in these regulations has expired. 
 
PART V: APPOINTMENT OF LEAD MANAGERS, OTHER INTERMEDIARIES AND 
COMPLIANCE OFFICER 
 
244. (1) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with the 
Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue.  
(2) Where the issue is managed  by more than one lead manager, the rights, obligations and 
responsibilities, relating inter alia to disclosures, allotment, refund and underwriting obligations, 
if any, of each lead manager shall be predetermined and disclosed in the draft offer document and 
the offer document as specified in Schedule I. 
(3) At least one lead manager to the issue shall not be an associate (as defined under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992) of the issuer and if any of 
the lead manager is an associate of the issuer, it shall disclose  itself as an associate of the issuer 
and its role shall be limited to marketing of the issue.  
(4) The issuer shall, in consultation with the lead manager(s), appoint other intermediaries which 
are registered with the Board after the lead manager(s) have independently assessed the capability 
of other intermediaries to carry out their obligations. 
(5) The issuer shall enter into an agreement with the lead manager(s) in the format specified in 
Schedule II and enter into agreements with other intermediaries as required under the respective 
regulations applicable to the intermediary concerned: 
Provided that such agreements may include such other clauses as the issuer and the intermediary 
may deem fit without diminishing or limiting in any way the liabilities and obligations of the lead 
manager(s), other intermediaries and the issuer under the Act, the Companies Act, 2013 412[***], 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 an d the rules and 
regulations made thereunder or any statutory modification or statutory enactment thereof:  
Provided further that  in case of ASBA process, the issuer shall take cognisance of the deemed 
agreement of the issuer with self certified syndicate banks. 
 
 
412 The words, numbers and symbol “or the Companies Act, 1956 (to the extent applicable) ” omitted by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 
14.1.2022. 

183 
 
(6) The issuer shall, in case of an issue made through the book building process, appoint syndicate 
member(s) and in the case of any other issue, appoint bankers to issue, at centres specified in 
Schedule XII.  
(7) The issuer shall appoint a registra r to the issue, registered with the Board, which has 
connectivity with all the depositories: 
Provided that if issuer itself is a registrar,  it shall not appoint itself as registrar to the issue; 
Provided further that the  lead manager shall not act as a re gistrar to the issue in which it is also 
handling the post-issue responsibilities.  
(8) The issuer shall appoint a  413[person qualified to be a company secretary as the]  compliance 
officer who shall be responsible for monitoring the compliance of the securit ies laws and for 
redressal of investors’ grievances. 
 
PART VI: DISCLOSURES IN AND FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENTS  
 
Disclosures in the draft offer document and offer document 
245. (1) The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which are true and a dequate so 
as to enable the applicants to take an informed investment decision.  
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), the offer document shall contain: 
a) disclosures specified in the Companies Act, 2013; 414[*]  
b) disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule VI 415[;] 
416[c)    disclosures pertaining to details of Employees' Provident Fund and Employees State 
Insurance Corporation; such as number of employees registered, amount paid, etc.; 
(d)    site visit report of issuer prepared by the le ad manager(s) shall be made available as a 
material document for inspection; and 
(e)      fees of lead manager(s) in any form/ name /purpose.] 
(3) The lead manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves about all aspects of 
the issue includ ing the veracity and adequacy of disclosure in the draft offer document and the 
offer document.  
 
 
413 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
414 The word  “and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
415 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”. 
416 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

184 
 
(4) The lead manager(s) shall call upon the issuer, its promoters and its directors or in case of an 
offer for sale, also the selling shareholders, to fulfil t heir obligations as disclosed by them in the 
draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and as required in terms of these 
regulations.  
(5) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the information contained in the offer document and the 
particulars as per audited financial statements in the offer document are not more than six months old 
from the issue opening date.  
 
Filing of the offer document 
246. (1) The issuer shall file a copy of the offer document with the Board through the lead 
manager(s), immediately upon 417[filing] of the offer document  with the Registrar of Companies:  
(2) The Board shall not issue any observation on the offer document.  
 418[(3) The lead  manager(s) shall  submit  a  due -diligence  certificate  as  per Form  A of Schedule  
V  to which the site visit report of the issuer prepared by the lead manager(s) shall also be 
annexed, including  additional  confirmations  as  provided  in Form  G   of  Schedule  V  along  
with  the  draft offer document to the SME Exchange(s ), where the specified securities are 
proposed to be listed.]  
(4) The offer document shall be displayed from the date of filing in terms of sub -regulation (1) on 
the websites of 419[the issuer,] the Board, the lead manager(s) and the SME exchange(s).  
(5) The 420[***] offer documents shall also be furnished to the Board in a soft copy. 
               
421[Draft Offer document and] Offer document to be made available to public 
247. 422[(1) The draft offer document filed with the SME exchange shall be made public for 
comments, if any, for a period of at least twenty on e days from the date of filing, by hosting it on 
 
 
417 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registration”. 
418 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as under,- 
 
“The lead manager(s) shall submit a due -diligence certificate as per Form A  of Schedule V  including 
additional confirmations as provided in Form G  of Schedule V  along with the offer document to the 
Board.” 
419 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023. 
420 The words “draft offer document and the” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issu e of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 . 
421 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
422 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

185 
 
the websites of the issuer, SME exchange where specified securities are proposed to be listed and 
lead manager associated with the issue. 
(2) The issuer shall, within two working days of filing the draft off er document with the SME 
Exchange, make a public announcement in one English national daily newspaper with wide 
circulation, one Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language 
newspaper with wide circulation at the place whe re the registered office of the issuer is situated, 
disclosing the fact of filing of the draft offer document with the SME exchange and inviting the 
public to provide their comments to the SME exchange, the issuer or the lead manager(s) in 
respect of the disclosures made in the draft offer document. 
(3) The lead manager(s) shall, after expiry of the period stipulated in sub -regulation (1), file with 
the SME exchange, details of the comments received by them or the issuer from the public, on the 
draft offer document, during that period and the consequential changes, if any, that are required to 
be made in the draft offer document.] 
423[(4)] The issuer and the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the offer documents are hosted on the 
websites as required under the se regulations and its contents are the same as the versions as filed 
with the Registrar of Companies, Board and the SME exchange(s).  
424[(5)] The lead manager(s) and the SME exchange(s) shall provide copies of the offer document to 
the public as and when requested and may charge a reasonable sum for providing a copy of the 
same. 
 
PART VII - PRICING   
 
Face value of equity shares 
248.  The disclosure about the face value of equity shares shall be made in the draft offer 
document, offer document, advertisements and application forms, along with the price band or the 
issue price in identical font size. 
 
Pricing 
249. (1) The issuer may determine the price of equity shares, and in case of convertible securities, the 
coupon rate and the conversion price, in consultation with the lead manager(s) or through the book 
building process, as the case may be.  
 
 
423 Renumbered by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(1)”. 
424 Renumbered by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(2)”. 

186 
 
(2) The issuer shall undertake the book building process in the manner specified in Schedule 
XIII. 
 
Price and price band 
250. (1) The issuer may mention a price or a pr ice band in the offer document (in case of a fixed 
price issue) and a floor price or a price band in the red herring prospectus (in case of a book built 
issue) and determine the price at a later date before 425[filing] the prospectus with the Registrar of 
Companies: 
Provided that the prospectus 426[filed] with the Registrar of Companies shall contain only one price 
or the specific coupon rate, as the case may be. 
(2) The cap on the price band, and the coupon rate in case of convertible debt instruments shall be  
less than or equal to one hundred and twenty per cent. of the floor price. 
(3) The floor price or the final price shall not be less than the face value of the specified securities. 
427[(4) The issuer shall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the 
opening of the issue in the pre-issue and price band advertisement in the format specified under Part 
A of Schedule X in one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, Hindi national daily 
newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper with wide circulation at the 
place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.]  
(5) The announcement referred to in sub -regulation (4) shall contain relevant financial ratios 
computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement drawing attention 
of the investors to the section titled “basis of issue price” of the offer document.  
(6) The announcement referred to in sub-regulation (4) and the relevant financial ratios referred to 
in sub-regulation (5) shall be disclosed on the websites of the SME exchange(s) and shall also be 
pre-filled in the application forms to be made available on the websites of the SME exchange(s).  
 
Differential pricing 
251. (1) The issuer may offer its specified securities at different prices, subject to the following: 
 
 
425 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. 
426 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registered”. 
427 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (4) read as under,- 
 
“(4) Where the issuer opts not to make the disclosure of the floor price or price band in the red herring 
prospectus, the issuer s hall announce the floor price or the price band at least two working days before the 
opening of the issue in the newspapers in which the pre -issue advertisement was released or together with 
the pre-issue advertisement in the format prescribed under Part A of Schedule X.” 
 

187 
 
a) 428[individual invest ors who applies for minimum appl ication size]  or retail individual 
shareholders[or employees entitled for reservation made under regulation 254 may be offered 
specified securities at a price not lower than by more than ten per cent. of the price at which net 
offer is made to other categories of applicants, excluding anchor investors.  
b) the differential pricing and the price at which net offer is proposed to be made to other 
categories of applicants shall be within the range such that the minimum application lot s ize 
shall remain uniform for all the applicants. 
c) in case of a book built issue, the price of the specified securities offered to the anchor investors 
shall not be lower than the price offered to other applicants. 
(2) Discount, if any, shall be expressed in rupee terms in the offer document.  
 
PART VIII: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURE  
 
Minimum offer to public 
252. The minimum offer to the public shall be as per the provisions of clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of 
rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957.  
 
Allocation in the net offer 
253.  429[(1)]The allocation in the net offer category shall be as follows:  
a) not less than thirty five per cent. to 430[*] individual investors 431[who applies for minimum 
application size]; 
b) not less than fifteen per cent. to non-institutional investors; 
c) not more than fifty per cent. to qualified institutional buyers, five per cent. of which shall be 
allocated to mutual funds: 
Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) 
may be allocated to applicants in any other category:  
Provided further that in addition to five per cent. allocation available in terms of clause (c), 
mutual funds shall be eligible for allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional 
buyers.  
 
 
428 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “retail individual investors”. 
429 Re-numbered by the Securities and Ex change Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. 
430 The word  “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
431 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

188 
 
432[***] 
433[(2) In an issue made through book building process, the allocation in the non -institutional 
investors’ category shall be as follows: 
(a) one third of the portion available to non -institutional investors shall be reserved for 
applicants with application size of more than two lots and up to such lots equivalent to not 
more than ₹10 lakhs;  
(b) two third of the portion available to non -institutional investors shall be reserved for 
applicants with application size of more than ₹10 lakhs:  
Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the sub -categories specified in 
clauses (a) or (b), may be allocated to applicants in the other sub -category of non -
institutional investors.] 
 
434[435[(3)] In  an  issue  made  other  than  through  the  book  building  process,  the  allocation  in  the  
net  offer category shall be made as follows: 
 
(a)  minimum fifty per cent. to 436[*] individual investors 437[who applies for  minimum 
application size]; and 
 
(b)  remaining to: 
(i)   individual applicants 438[who applies for minimum application size]; and 
 
(ii) other  investors  including  corporate  bodies  or  institutions,   irrespective  of  the  
number of specified securities applied for; 
 
 
 
432 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capit al and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. Prior to its omission,- 
“Explanation: If the retail individual investor category is entitled to more than the allocated portion on 
proportionate basis, the retail individual investors shall be allocated that higher percentage.” 
433 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
434 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w-e-f- 31.12.2018. 
435 Renumbered by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Issue of Capital a nd Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f.08.03.2025. Prior to its renumbering, it read as “(2)”. 
436 The word  “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
437 Inserted by the Securities and E xchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
438 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “other than retail individual investors”. 

189 
 
Provided that the unsubscribed portion in either of the categories specified in clauses (a) or (b) 
may be allocated to applicants in the other category. 
 
Explanation. - For the purpose of sub-regulation 439[(3)], if the 440[*] 441[category of individual 
investors who applies for minimum application size] is entitled to more than fifty per cent. of 
the issue size on a proportionate  basis, 442[such] 443[*] individual investors shall be allocated 
that higher percentage.] 
 
Reservation on a competitive basis 
254. (1) The issuer may make reservations on a competitive basis out of the issue size excluding 
promoters’ contribution in favour of the following categories of persons: 
a) employees;  
b) shareholders (other than promoters and promot er group) of  listed subsidiaries or listed 
promoter companies  
Provided that the issuer shall not make any reservation for the lead manager(s), registrar,  
syndicate member(s), their promoters, directors and employees and for the group or associate 
companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013) of the lead manager(s), registrar, and 
syndicate member(s) and their promoters, directors and employees.  
(2) The reservations on a competitive basis shall be subject to following conditions: 
a) the aggregate of reservations for employees shall not exceed five per cent. of the post -issue 
capital of the issuer and the value of allotment to any employee shall not exceed two lakhs 
rupees:  
Provided that  in the event of under -subscription in the employee reservation po rtion, the 
unsubscribed portion may be allotted on a proportionate basis, for a value in excess of two 
lakhs rupees, subject to the total allotment to an employee not exceeding five lakhs rupees.  
b) reservation for shareholders shall not exceed ten per cent. of the issue size; 
 
 
439 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word and numeral “(2)”. 
440 The word  “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
441 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and  Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “individual investor category”. 
442 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word “the”. 
443 The word  “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

190 
 
c) no further application for subscription in the net offer can be made by persons (except an 
employee and retail individual shareholder)  in favour of whom reservation on a competitive 
basis is made;  
d) any unsubscribed portion in any reser ved category may be added to any other reserved 
category(ies) and the unsubscribed portion, if any, after such inter -se adjustments among the 
reserved categories shall be added to the net offer category; 
e) in case of under -subscription in the net offer categ ory, spill -over to the extent of under -
subscription shall be permitted from the reserved category to the net public offer. 
(3) An applicant in any reserved category may make an application for any number of specified 
securities but not exceeding the reserved portion for that category.  
 
Abridged prospectus   
255. (1) The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified in 444[Part E of 
Schedule VI ] and shall not contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.  
(2) Every application  form distributed by the issuer or any other person in relation to an issue 
shall be accompanied by a copy of the abridged prospectus.  
 
ASBA 
256. The issuer shall accept bids using only the ASBA facility in the manner specified by the 
Board.  
 
Availability of issue material  
257. The lead manager(s) shall ensure availability of the offer document and other issue material 
including application forms to stock exchanges, syndicate members, registrar to issue, registrar 
and share transfer agents, depository pa rticipants, stock brokers, underwriters, bankers to the 
issue, investors’ associations and self certified syndicate banks before the opening of the issue. 
 
Prohibition on payment of incentives 
258. Any person connected with the distribution of the issue, s hall not offer any incentive, 
whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise to any 
person for making an application in the initial public offer, except for fees or commission for 
services rendered in relation to the issue.  
 
 
 
444 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “Part E of Schedule VIII”. 

191 
 
 
445[***] 
 
Underwriting 
260. (1) The initial public offer shall be underwritten for hundred per cent of the offer and shall 
not be restricted upto the minimum subscription level.   
(2) The lead manager(s) shall underwrite at least fifteen per cent. of the issue size on their own 
account(s). 
(3) The issuer, in consultation with lead manager(s), 446[shall appoint merchant bankers or stock 
brokers, registered with the Board, to act as underwriters, ] and the lead manager(s) may enter into 
an agreement with the nominated investors indicating therein the number of specified securities 
which they agree to subscribe at the issue price in case of under-subscription. 
(4) The lead manager(s) shall file an undertaking to the Board that the issue has been hund red per 
cent. underwritten along with the list of underwriters, nominated investors and sub -underwriters 
indicating the extent of underwriting or subscription commitment made by each of them, one day 
before the opening of issue.  
(5) If any of the underwri ters fail to fulfill their underwriting obligations or the nominated 
investors fail to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion, the lead manager(s)  shall fulfill the 
underwriting obligations. 
(6) The underwriters/ sub -underwriters, other than the lead manage r(s) and the nominated 
investors, who have entered into an agreement for subscribing to the issue in case of under -
subscription, shall not subscribe to the issue made under this Chapter in any manner except for 
fulfilling their obligations under their resp ective agreements with the lead manager(s)  in this 
regard.  
(7) All underwriting and subscription arrangements made by the lead manager(s)  shall be 
disclosed in the offer document.  
 
Market making 
 
 
445 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital an d Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. Prior to its omission, Regulation 259 read as follows-  
“Security deposit  
259. (1) The issuer shall, before the opening of subscription list, deposit with the designated stock exc hange, 
an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent. of the issue size available for subscription to the public in 
the manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).  
(2)The amount specified in sub -regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable  in the manner specified by 
the Board.” 
446 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “ may appoint underwriters i n 
accordance with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993 ”. 

192 
 
261. (1) The lead manager(s) shall ensure compulsory market making through the stock brokers of 
the SME exchange(s) appointed by the issuer, in the manner specified by the Board for a 
minimum period of three years from the date of listing of the specified securities or from the date 
of migration from the Main Board in terms of regulation 276. 
(2) The market maker or issuer, in consultation with the lead manager(s)  may enter into 
agreements with the nominated investors for receiving or delivering the specified securities in 
market making, subject to the prior approval of the SME exchange. 
(3) The issuer shall disclose the details of the market making arrangement in the offer document. 
(4) The specified securities being bought or sold in the process of market making may be 
transferred to or from the nominated investors with whom the lead manager(s) and the issuer have 
entered into an agreement for market making: 
Provided that  the inventory of the market maker, as on the date of allotment of the specified 
securities, shall be at least five per cent. of the specified sec urities proposed to be listed on SME 
exchange. 
(5) The market maker shall buy the entire shareholding of a shareholder of the issuer in one lot, 
where the value of such shareholding is less than the minimum contract size allowed for trading 
on the SME exchange: 
Provided that market maker shall not sell in lots less than the minimum contract size allowed for 
trading on the SME exchange. 
(6) The market maker shall not buy the shares from the promoters or persons belonging to the 
promoter group of the issuer or any person who has acquired shares from such promoter or person 
belonging to the promoter group during the compulsory market making period.  
(7) The promoters’ holding shall not be eligible for offering to the market maker during the 
compulsory market making period:  
Provided that the promoters’ holding which is not locked -in as per these regulations can be traded 
with prior permission of the SME exchange, in the manner specified by the Board. 
(8) The lead manager(s) may be represented on the board of dir ectors of the issuer subject to the 
agreement between the issuer and the lead manager(s) who have the responsibility of market 
making. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

193 
 
Monitoring agency 
262. (1) If the issue size, excluding the size of offer for sale by selling shareholders, exceeds 
447[₹50 crores], the issuer shall make arrangements for the use of proceeds of the issue to be 
monitored by a 448[credit rating agency registered with the Board:]  
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to an issue of specified securities made by a 
bank or public financial institution or an insurance company. 
(2) The monitoring agency shall submit its report to the issuer in the format specified in Schedule 
XI on a quarterly basis, till 449[hundred per cent]. of the pr oceeds of the issue  450[***] have been 
utilised.  
(3) The board of directors and the management of the issuer shall provide their comments on the 
findings of the monitoring agency as specified in Schedule XI.  
(4) The issuer shall, within forty five days fro m the end of each quarter, publicly disseminate the 
report of the monitoring agency by uploading the same on its website as well as submitting the 
same to the stock exchange(s) on which its equity shares are listed. 
451[(5) In an issue where the issuer is no t required to appoint a monitoring agency under this 
regulation, the issuer shall submit a certificate of the statutory auditor for utilization of money 
raised through the public issue (excluding offer for sale by selling shareholders) to SME 
exchange(s) while filing the quarterly financial results, till the issue proceeds are fully utilized. 
(6) In an issue where working capital is one of the objects of the issue and the amount raised for 
the said object exceeds five crore rupees, the issuer shall submit a  certificate of the statutory 
auditor to SME exchange(s) while filing the quarterly financial results, for use of funds as 
working capital in the same format as disclosed in the offer document, till the proceeds raised for 
the said object are fully utilized.] 
 
Public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports 
263. All public communications, publicity materials, advertisements and research reports shall 
comply with provisions of Schedule IX.  
 
 
447 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “one hundred crore rupees”. 
448 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “ public financial institution or by one of 
the scheduled commercial banks named in the offer document as bankers of the issuer :”. 
449 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “at least ninety five per cent”. 
450 The symbols and words “ , excluding the proceeds raised for general corporate purposes ,” omitted by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 
451 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

194 
 
 
Issue-related advertisements  
264. 452[(1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the issuer shall, after filing the 
prospectus with the Registrar of Companies, make a pre -issue and price band advertisement in the 
same newspapers in which the public announcement under sub-regulation (4) of Regulation 250 was 
published.] 
(2) The pre -issue 453[and price band]  advertisement shall be in the format and shall contain the 
disclosures specified in Part A of Schedule X. 
454[***] 
(3) The issuer may issue advertisements for issue opening and issue closing advertisements, which 
shall be in the formats specified in Parts B and C of Schedule X. 
(4) During the period the issue is open for subscription, no advertisement shall be released giving 
an impression that the issue has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed or indicating investors’ 
response to the issue. 
(5) An announcement regarding closure of the issue shall be made only after the lead manager(s) is 
satisfied that at least ninety per cent. of the offer has been subscribed and a certificate has been 
obtained to that effect from the registrar to the issue: 
Provided that such an announcement shall not be made before the date on which the issue is to be 
closed except for issue closing advertisement made in the format prescribed in these regulations.  
 
 
Opening of the issue 
265. The issue shall be opened after at least three working days from the date of  455[filing] the 
offer document with the Registrar of Companies.  
 
 
452 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under,- 
 
“(1) Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,  the issuer shall, after filing the prospectus with 
the Registrar o f Companies, make a pre -issue advertisement in one English national daily newspaper with 
wide circulation, Hindi national daily newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language newspaper 
with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of the issuer is situated.” 
453 Inserted by the Securities and E xchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
454 Omitted by the the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f 
08.03.2025. Prior to the omission, the proviso read as under: 
 
“Provided that the disclosures in relation to price band or floor price and financial ratios contained therein 
shall only be applicable where the issuer opts to announce the price band or floor price along with the pre -
issue advertisement pursuant to sub-regulation (4) of regulation 250.” 
455 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Seventh Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w-e-f 01.01.2020 for the word “registering”. 

195 
 
 
Period of subscription 
266. (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations , a public issue shall be kept open for at 
least three working days and not more than ten working days.  
(2) In case of a revision in the price band, the issuer shall extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed 
in the red herring prospectus, for a minimum period of three working days, subject to the provisions 
of sub-regulation (1).  
(3) In case of force  majeure, banking strike or similar 456[unforeseen] circumstances, the issuer may, 
for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the bidding (issue) period disclosed in the red herring 
prospectus (in case of a book built issue) or the issue period disclosed in the prospectus (in case of a 
fixed price issue), for a minimum period of 457[one working day], subject to the provisions of sub-
regulation (1).     
 
 
Application and minimum application value 
267. (1) A person shall not make an application in the net offer category for a number of specified 
securities that exceeds the total number of specified securities offered to the public.  
Provided that the maximum application by non-institutional investors shall not exceed total number 
of specified securities offered in the issue less total number of specified securities offered in the issue 
to qualified institutional buyers.  
(2) The minimum application size shall be 458[two lots] per application459[:]  
460[Provided that the minimum application size shall be above ₹2 lakhs.] 
(3) The issuer shall invite applications in multiples of the 461[lot size]. 
(4) The minimum sum payable on application per specified security shall at least be twenty five per 
cent. of the issue price: 
 
 
456 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024. 
457 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requi rements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f. 18.05.2024 for the words “three working days” 
458 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “one lakh rupees”. 
459 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol “.”. 
460 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
461 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025  w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the symbol, letter, words and numerals  “minimum application 
amount, an illustration whereof is given in Part B of Schedule XIV”. 

196 
 
Provided that in case of an offer for sale, the full issue price for each specified security shall be 
payable on application. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this regulation, “minimum application value” shall be wit h 
reference to the issue price of the specified securities and not with reference to the amount payable on 
application. 
 
Allotment procedure and basis of allotment  
268. (1) The issuer shall not make an allotment pursuant to a public issue if the number of allottees in 
an initial public offer is less than 462[two hundred].  
(2) The issuer shall not make any allotment in excess of the specified securities offered through the 
offer document except in case of oversubscription for the purpose of rounding off  to make 
allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange.  
Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than ten per cent. of the net 
offer to public may be made for the purpose of making allotment in minimum lots.  
(3) The allotment of specified securities to applicants other than 463[*] individual investors464[who 
applies for minimum application size, non-institutional investors] and anchor investors shall be on 
proportionate basis within the spe cified investor categories and the number of securities allotted 
shall be rounded off to the nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment being equal to the 
minimum application size as determined and disclosed in the offer document: 
Provided that the value of specified securities allotted to any person, except in case of employees, 
in pursuance of reservation made under clause (a) of sub -regulation (1) or clause (a) of sub -
regulation (2) of regulation 254, shall not exceed two lakhs rupees.  
465[(3A) Subject to the availability of shares in non -institutional investors’ category, the allotment of 
specified securities to each non -institutional investor shall not be less than the minimum 
application size in non -institutional investor category, and the remaining shares, if any, shall be 
allotted on a proportionate basis in accordance with the conditions specified in this regard in 
Schedule XIII of these regulations.] 
 
 
462 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “fifty”. 
463 The word  “retail” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
464 Inserted by the Securities and Exc hange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
465 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

197 
 
(4) The authorised employees of the stock exchange, along with the lead manager(s) and registrars 
to the issue, shall ensure that the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in 
accordance with the allotment procedure as specified in 466[Parts A and A2] of Schedule XIV.  
 
Allotment, refund and payment of interest 
269. (1) The registrars to the issue, in consultation with the  issuer and lead manager(s) shall ensure 
that the specified securities are allotted and/or application monies are refunded or unblocked within 
such time as may be specified by the Board.  
(2) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the allotment, credit of dematerialised securities, 
refunding or unlocking of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically.  
(3) Where the specified securities are not allotted and/or application monies are not refunded or 
unblocked within the period stipulated in sub-regulation (1) above, the issuer shall undertake to pay 
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum  and within such time as disclosed in the offer 
document and the lead manager(s) shall ensure the same.  
 
Post-issue advertisements 
270. (1) The lead manager(s)  shall ensure that advertisement giving details relating to 
subscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all applications including 
ASBA, number, value and percentage of successful allottees for all applications including ASBA, 
date of completion of dispatch of refund orders, as applicable,  or instructions to s elf certified 
syndicate banks by the Registrar, date of credit of specified securities and date of filing of listing 
application, etc. is released within ten days from the date of completion of the various activities in 
at least one English national daily newspaper with wide circulation, one Hindi national daily 
newspaper with wide circulation and one regional language daily newspaper with wide circulation 
at the place where registered office of the issuer is situated.  
(2) Details specified in sub regulation (1) shall also be placed on the website of the stock 
exchanges.  
 
Post-issue responsibilities of the lead manager(s) 
271. (1) The responsibility of the lead manager(s) shall continue until completion of the issue 
process and for any issue related matter thereafter.  
(2) The lead manager(s) shall regularly monitor redressal of investor grievances arising from any 
issue related activities.   
 
 
466 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the word and letter “Part A”. 

198 
 
(3) The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for and co -ordinate with the registrars to the issue 
and with various intermediaries at regular intervals after the closure of the issue to monitor the 
flow of applications from syndicate member(s ) or collecting bank branches and or self -certified 
syndicate banks, processing of the applications including application form for ASBA and other 
matters till the basis of allotment is finalised, credit of the specified securities to the demat 
accounts of the allottees and unblocking of ASBA accounts/ despatch of refund orders are 
completed and securities are listed, as applicable.  
(4) Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by the lead 
manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board.  
(5)In case there is a devolvement on underwriters, the lead manager(s) shall ensure that the notice 
for devolvement containing the obligation of the underwriters is issued within a period of ten days 
from the date of closure of the issue. 
(6) In the case of undersubscribed issues that are underwritten, the lead manager(s) shall furnish 
information in respect of underwriters who have failed to meet their underwriting devolvement to 
the Board in the format specified in Schedule XVIII. 
 
 
 
Release of subscription money 
272. (1) The lead manager(s) shall confirm to the bankers to the issue by way of copies of listing 
and trading approvals that all formalities in connection with the issue have been completed and 
that the banker is free to release the money to the issuer or release the money for refund in case of 
failure of the issue.  
(2) In case the issuer fails to obtain listing or trading permission from the stock exchanges where 
the specified securities were to be listed, it shall refund through verifiable means the entire monies 
received within 467[four days]  of receipt of intimation from stock exchanges rejecting the 
application for listing of specified securities, and if any such money is not repaid within 468[four 
days] after the issuer becomes liable to repay it the issuer and every director of the company who 
is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the 469[fourth day], be jointly and severally 
liable to repay that money with interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum.  
 
 
467 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “seven days”. 
468 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eight days”. 
469 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “eighth day”. 

199 
 
(2) The lead manager(s) shall ensure that the monies received in respect of the issue are released 
to the issuer in compliance with the provisions of the Section 40 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
as applicable.  
 
Post-issue reports  
273. The lead manager(s) shall submit a final post-issue report as specified in Part A of Schedule 
XVII, along with a due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Form F of Schedule V, 
within seven days of the date of finalization of basis of allotment or w ithin seven days of refund 
of money in case of failure of issue.  
 
470[Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter group and other pre -IPO 
transactions 
274. (1) The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoter and promo ter 
group between the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may 
be, and the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty -
four hours of such transactions. 
(2) The issuer shall als o ensure that any proposed pre -IPO placement disclosed in the draft offer 
document shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty -four hours of such pre -IPO 
transactions (in part or in entirety).] 
 
 
Listing  
275. Where any listed issuer issues specified securities in accordance with provisions of this 
Chapter, it shall migrate the specified securities already listed on a ny recognised stock 
exchange(s) to the SME exchange.  
 
Migration to the SME exchange 
276. A listed issuer whose post-issue 471[paid-up] capital is less than twenty five crore rupees may 
migrate its specified securities to SME exchange if its shareh olders approve such migration by 
 
 
470 Substituted by th e Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to the substitution, Regulation 274 read as under: 
 
“Reporting of transactions of the promoters and promoter grou p 
274.  The issuer shall ensure that all transactions in securities by the promoter and promoter group between 
the date of filing of the draft offer document or offer document, as the case may be, and the date of closure 
of the issue shall be reported to the stock exchange(s), within twenty four hours of such transactions.” 

200 
 
passing a special resolution through postal ballot to this effect and if such issuer fulfils the 
eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the SME exchange: 
Provided that  the special resolution shall be acted upon if an d only if the votes cast by 
shareholders other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the 
number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal. 
 
Migration to the main board 
277.  An issuer, whose specified securities are listed on a SME Exchange and whose post -issue 
472[paid-up] capital is more than ten crore rupees and up to twenty five crore rupees, may migrate 
its specified securities to the main board of the stock exchanges if its shareholders approve such a 
migration by passing a special resolution through postal ballot to this effect and if such issuer 
fulfils the eligibility criteria for listing laid down by the Main Board: 
Provided that  the special resolution shall be acted upon if and only if the votes cast by 
shareholders other than promoters in favour of the proposal amount to at least two times the 
number of votes cast by shareholders other than promoter shareholders against the proposal. 
 
PART IX: MISCELLANEOUS  
Restriction on further capital issues 
278. An issuer shall not make any further issue of specified securities in any manner whether by way 
of public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, qualified institutions placement, issue of bonus shares 
or otherwise, except pursuant to an employee stock option scheme 473[or a stock appreciation right 
scheme], during the period between the date of filing the draft offer document and the listing of the 
specified securities offered through the offer document or refund of application monies unless full 
disclosures regarding the total number of specified securities or amount proposed to be raised 
from such further issue are made in such draft offer document or offer document, as the case may 
be.  
 
Price stabilisation through green shoe option 
279. (1) The issuer may provide green shoe option for stabilising the post listing price of its specified 
securities, subject to the following: 
 
 
471 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”. 
472 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”. 
473 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital a nd Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

201 
 
a) the issuer has been authorized, by a resolution passed in the general meeting of shareholders 
approving the public issue, to allot specified securities to the stabilising agent, if required, on 
the expiry of the stabilisation period;  
b) the issuer has appointed a lead manager(s) appointed by the issuer as a stabilising agent, who 
shall be responsible for the price stabilisation process; 
c) prior to filing the draft offer document, the issuer and the stabilising agent have entered into an 
agreement, stating all the terms and conditions relating to the green shoe option including fees 
charged and expenses to be incurred by the stabilising agent for discharging its responsibilities; 
d) prior to filing the offer document, the stabilising agent has entered into an agreement with the 
promoters or pre-issue shareholders or both for borrowing specified securities from th em in 
accordance with clause (g) of this sub-regulation, specifying therein the maximum number of 
specified securities that may be borrowed for the purpose of allotment or allocation of specified 
securities in excess of the issue size (hereinafter referred  to as the “over - allotment”), which 
shall not be in excess of fifteen per cent. of the issue size; 
e) subject to clause (d), the lead manager(s) , in consultation with the stabilising agent, shall 
determine the amount of specified securities to be over-allotted in the public issue;  
f) the draft offer document and offer document shall contain all material disclosures about the 
green shoe option specified in this regard in Part A of Schedule VI; 
g) in case of an initial public offer pre-issue shareholders and promoters and in case of a further 
public offer pre-issue shareholders holding more than five per cent. specified securities and 
promoters, may lend specified securities to the extent of the proposed over-allotment; 
h) the specified securities borrowed shall be in d ematerialised form and allocation of these 
securities shall be made pro-rata to all successful applicants.  
(2) For the purpose of stabilisation of post -listing price of the specified securities, the stabilising 
agent shall determine the relevant aspects including the timing of buying such securities, quantity to 
be bought and the price at which such securities are to be bought from the market.  
(3) The stabilisation process shall be available for a period not exceeding thirty days from the date on 
which trading pe rmission is given by the stock exchanges in respect of the specified securities 
allotted in the public issue. 
(4) The stabilising agent shall open a special account, distinct from the issue account, with a bank for 
crediting the monies received from the applicants against the over-allotment and a special account 
with a depository participant for crediting specified securities to be bought from the market during 
the stabilisation period out of the monies credited in the special bank account. 
 

202 
 
(5) The specified securities bought from the market and credited in the special account with the 
depository participant shall be returned to the promoters or pre -issue shareholders immediately, in 
any case not later than two working days after the end of the stabilization period.  
(6) On expiry of the stabilisation period, if the stabilising agent has not been able to buy specified 
securities from the market to the extent of such securities over-allotted, the issuer shall allot specified 
securities at issue price in dematerialised fo rm to the extent of the shortfall to the special account 
with the depository participant, within five days of the closure of the stabilisation period and such 
specified securities shall be returned to the promoters or pre -issue shareholders by the stabilis ing 
agent in lieu of the specified securities borrowed from them and the account with the depository 
participant shall be closed thereafter. 
(7) The issuer shall make a listing application in respect of the further specified securities allotted 
under sub-regulation (6), to all the stock exchanges where the specified securities allotted in the 
public issue are listed and the provisions of Chapter VII shall not be applicable to such allotment.  
(8) The stabilising agent shall remit the monies with respect to the specified securities allotted under 
sub-regulation (6) to the issuer from the special bank account.  
(9) Any monies left in the special bank account after remittance of monies to the issuer under sub-
regulation (8) and deduction of expenses incurred by the stabilising agent for the stabilisation process 
shall be transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the Board and the 
special bank account shall be closed soon thereafter. 
(10)  The stabilising agent shall submit a report to the stock exchange on a daily basis during the 
stabilisation period and a final report to the Board in the format specified in Schedule XV. 
(11)  The stabilising agent shall maintain a register for a period of at least three years from the date 
of the end of the stabilisation period and such register shall contain the following particulars: 
a) The names of the promoters or pre-issue shareholders from whom the specified securities were 
borrowed and the number of specified securities borrowed from each of them;  
b) The price, date and time in respect of each transaction effected in the course of the stabilisation 
process; and  
c) The details of allotment made by the issuer on expiry of the stabilisation process. 
 
Alteration of rights of holders of specified securities 
280. (1) The issuer shall not alter the terms (including the terms of issue) of specified securities 
which may adversely affect the interests of the holders of that specified securities, except with the 
consent in writing of the holders of not less than three -fourths of the  specified securities of that 
class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a meeting of the holders of the specified 
securities of that class. 

203 
 
(2) Where the post -issue 474[paid-up] capital of an issuer listed on a SME exchange is li kely to 
increase beyond twenty five crore rupees by virtue of any further issue of capital by the issuer by 
way of rights issue, preferential issue, bonus issue, etc. the issuer shall migrate its specified 
securities listed on a SME exchange to the Main Bo ard and seek listing of the specified securities 
proposed to be issued on the Main Board subject to the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria for 
listing of specified securities laid down by the Main Board:  
Provided that no further issue of capital by the issuer shall be made unless – 
a) the shareholders of the issuer have approved the migration by passing a special resolution 
through postal ballot wherein the votes cast by shareholders other than promoters in favour of 
the proposal amount to at least two ti mes the number of votes cast by shareholders other than 
promoter shareholders against the proposal; 
b) the issuer has obtained an in -principle approval from the Main Board for listing of its entire 
specified securities on it. 
475[Provided further that where the  post-issue paid -up capital pursuant to further issue of capital 
including by way of rights i ssue, preferential issue, bonus issue,  is likely to increase beyond ₹25 
crores, the issuer may undertake further issuance of capital without migration from SME 
exchange to the main board, subject to the issuer undertaking to comply with the provisions of the 
Securities  and  Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as applicable to companies listed on the main board of the stock exchange(s).] 
 
Further Issues 
281. An issuer listed on a SME exchange making a further issue of capital by way of a rights 
issue, or further public offer or preferential issue or bonus issue etc. may do so by adhering to 
applicable requirements mentioned in these regulations. 
 
476[Post-listing exit opportunity for dissenting shareholders 
281A. The promoters or shareholders in control of an issuer shall provide an exit offer to 
dissenting shareholders as provided for in the Companies Act, 2013 in case of change in objects 
or variation in the terms of contract related to objects referre d to in the offer document as per the 
conditions and in the manner provided in Schedule XX: 
 
 
474 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “face value”. 
475 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
476 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requireme nts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 