252 
 
[*The option to receive physical security certificates in a rights issue s hall be available only 
for a period of six months from the date of coming into force of these regulations.] 
(10) Following disclosures have been made in the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer: 
(a) An undertaking from the issuer that at any given time, ther e shall be only one 
denomination for the IDR, and 
(b) An undertaking from the issuer that it shall comply with all disclosure and accounting 
norms specified by the Board. 
(11) None of the intermediaries named in the red herring prospectus / prospectus have been 
debarred from functioning by any regulatory authority. 
(12) We enclose a note explaining the process of due diligence that has been exercised by us 
including in relation to the business of the issuer, the risks in relation to the business,  and 
experience of the promoters. 
(13) We enclose a checklist confirming regulation -wise compliance with the applicable provisions 
of these regulations, containing details such as the regulation number, its text, the status of 
compliance, page number of the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer where the regulation 
has been complied with and our comments, if any. 
(14) Agreements have been entered into with the depositories for dematerialisation of the IDR s of 
the issuer. 
Place: Lead Manager(s) to the Issue 
Date: 
 
 
with Official Seal(s) 
SCHEDULE VI - DISCLOSURES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT, ABRIDGED 
PROSPECTUS AND 602[*] LETTER OF OFFER 
[See regulations 17, 24(2)(b), 34(1), 57(1)(f), 70(2), 603[**] 122(2)(ii), 123(2)(d), 131(1), 
153(1)(f), 186(3)(d), 218(2), 220(1)], 239, 246(2)(b), 282(1)(f), 287(2), 291] 
 
Part A – Disclosures in offer document/letter of offer 
[See regulations17, 24(2)(b), 57(1)(f), 70(2), 122(2)(ii), 153(1)(f), 239, 246(2)(b), 282(1)(f), 
287(2), 291] 
 
 
 
602 The word “ABRIDGED” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. 
603 The word, numerals and symbols  “71(2)(d), 75,” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.04.2025. 

253 
 
All disclosures specified under this Part shall be made in the draft offer document or the draft 
letter of offer and the offer document or the letter of offer, as applicable.  
 
Instructions: 
(a) All information shall be relevant and updated. The source and basis of all statements and 
claims  shall be disclosed. Te rms such as “market leader”, “leading player”, etc. shall be 
used only if these can be substantiated by citing a proper source.  
(b) All blank spaces in the draft offer document shall be filled up with appropriate data before 
filing the offer document, as applicable, with the Registrar of Companies or filing the same 
with the recognised stock exchanges.  
(c) Simple English shall be used to enable easy understanding of the contents. Technical terms, 
if any, used in explaining the business of the issuer shall be clarified in simple terms. 
(d) Wherever it is mentioned that details are given elsewhere in the document, the same shall be 
adequately cross-referenced by indicating the paragraph heading and page number.   
(e) There shall be no forward-looking statements that cannot be substantiated.  
(f) Consistency shall be ensured in the style of disclosures. If first person is used, the same may 
be used throughout. Sentences that contain a combination of first and third persons may be 
avoided. 
(g) For currency of presentation, only one standard financial unit shall be used.  
 
Applicability 
An issuer making a public issue or a rights issue of specified securities shall make disclosures 
specified in this Schedule. 
Provided that:  
(a) an issuer making a fast track 604[public issue ] may not make the  disclosures specified in 
605[Part D] of this Schedule.  
(b) an issuer making a further public offer of specified securities may not make the disclosures 
specified in Part C of this Schedule if it satisfies the conditions specified in para graph 2 of 
that Part.  
(c) an issuer making a rights issue may only make the disclosures specified in Part B of this 
Schedule if it satisfies the conditions specified in paragraph 1 of such Part.   
 
 
604 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirem ents) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “issue”. 
605 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “Part B”. 

254 
 
 
606[Provided further that for the purpose of public issue by an issuer to be listed /l isted on SME 
exchange made in accordance with Chapter IX of these regulations, the words “retail individual 
investors” shall be read as words “individual investors who applies for minimum application 
size”.] 
 
(1) Cover pages: The cover pages shall be of adequa te thickness (minimum hundred GSM 
quality) and shall be white in colour with no patterns.  
(a) Front cover pages:  
(1) 607[Front outside cover page shall contain issue and issuer details, details of 
selling shareholders in tabular format along with their average cost of acquisition 
and offer for sale details, and other details as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
(2) Front 608[inside] cover page shall contain only the following issue details:  
a) The type of the offer document (“Draft Red Herring Prospectus”/”Draft 
Letter of Offer”, “Red Herring Prospectus”, “Shelf Prospectus”, 
"Prospectus", “Letter of Offer”, as applicable).  
b) Date of the draft offer document or offer document. 
c) Type of issuance (“book built” or “fixed price”).  
d) In case of a public issue, the following clause shall be incorporated in a 
prominent manner, below the title of the offer document:  
  “Please read Section 32 of the Companies Act, 2013”   
e) Name of the issuer, its logo, date and place of its incorporation, corporate 
identity number, addres s of its registered and corporate offices, telephone 
number,  contact person, website address and e -mail address (where there 
has been any change in the address of the registered office or the name of 
the issuer, reference to the page of the offer document  where details 
thereof are given).  
f) Names of the promoter(s) of the issuer. 
 
 
606 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
607 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)  
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. Prior to the substitution, point (1) read as follows: 
“(1) Front inside cover page shall be kept blank.” 
608 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requireme nts) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “outside”. 

255 
 
g) Nature, number and price of specified securities offered and issue size, as 
may be applicable, including any offer for sale by promoters or members 
of the promoter group or other shareholders.  
h) Aggregate amount proposed to be raised through all the stages of offers 
made through a shelf prospectus. 
i) In the case of the first issue of the issuer, the following clause on ‘Risks in 
relation to the First Issue’ shall be incorporated in a box format: 
"This being the first issue of the issuer, there has been no formal market 
for the securities of the issuer. The face value of the equity shares is (-----). 
The issue price/floor price/price band should not be taken to be indicative 
of the market price of the specified securities after the specified securities 
are listed. No assurance can be given regarding an active or sustained 
trading in the equity shares of the issuer nor regarding the price at which 
the equity shares will be traded after listing." 
j) The following clause on ‘General Risk' shall be incorporated in a box 
format: 
"Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a degree of risk 
and investors should not invest any funds in this offer unless they can 
afford to take the ris k of losing their investment. Investors are advised to 
read the risk factors carefully before taking an investment decision in this 
offering. For taking an investment decision, investors must rely on their 
own examination of the issuer and the offer includ ing the risks involved. 
The securities have not been recommended or approved by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI guarantee the 
accuracy or adequacy of this document. Specific attention of investors is 
invited to the statement of ‘Risk factors’ given on page number ….. under 
the section ‘General Risks’." 
k) The following clause on ‘Issuer’s Absolute Responsibility’ shall be 
incorporated in a box format: 
"The issuer, having made all reasonable inquiries, accepts responsibility 
for and confirms that this offer document contains all information with 
regard to the issuer and the issue which is material in the context of the 
issue, that the information contained in the offer document is true and 
correct in all material aspects and is not misleading in any material respect, 
that the opinions and intentions expressed herein are honestly held and that 

256 
 
there are no other facts, the omission of which make this document as a 
whole or any of such information or the expression of any such opinio ns 
or intentions misleading in any material respect.  The selling shareholders 
accept responsibility for and confirm the statements made by them in this 
offer document to the extent of information specifically pertaining to them 
and their respective portion of the offered shares and assume responsibility 
that such statements are true and correct in all material respects and not 
misleading in any material respect" 
l) Names, logos and addresses of all the lead manager(s) with their titles who 
have signed the due diligence certificate and filed the offer document with 
the Board, along with their telephone numbers, website addresses and e -
mail addresses. (Where any of the lead manager(s) is an associate of the 
issuer, it shall disclose itself as an associate of the issuer and that its role is 
limited to marketing of the issue.)  
m) Name, logo and address of the registrar to the issue, along with its 
telephone number, website address and e-mail address.  
n) Issue schedule: 
(i) Anchor bid period, if any  
(ii) Date of opening of the issue 
(iii) Date of closing of the issue 
(iv) Date of earliest closing of the issue, if any             
o) Credit rating, if applicable. 
p) IPO grading, if any  
q) Name(s) of the stock exchanges where the specified securities are 
proposed to be listed and the details of their in-principle approval for 
listing obtained from these stock exchange(s). 
  
(b) Back cover pages: The back inside cover page and back outside cover page shall be 
kept blank. 
 
(2) Table of Contents: The table of contents shall appear immediately after the front inside cover 
page. 
 
(3) Definitions and abbreviations: 
(A) Conventional or general terms 

257 
 
(B) Issue related terms 
(C) Issuer and industry related terms 
(D) Abbreviations 
 
(4) Offer Document summary: This section shall contain summary of the following information, 
as applicable: 
(A) Primary business of the Issuer  and the industry in which it operates, in not more than 100 
words each; 
(B) Names of the promoters; 
(C) Size of the issue disclosing separately size of the fresh issue and offer for sale; 
(D) Objects of the issue in a tabular format; 
(E) Aggregate pre-issue shareholding of the promoter and promoter group, selling 
shareholder(s) as a percentage of the paid-up share capital of the issuer; 
609[(EA) For the promoter(s), promoter group and additional top 10 shareholders, the pre -issue and 
post-issue shareholding as at allotment, in the following format in the prospectus: 
Shareholding of Promoter / Promoter Group and Additional Top 10 Shareholders of the 
Company as at allotment: 
S. No. 
Pre-Issue shareholding as at the date of 
Advertisement Post-Issue shareholding as at Allotment (3) 
Shareholders 
Number of 
Equity 
Shares(2) 
Share 
holding 
(in %)(2) 
At the lower end of the 
price band (₹[●]) 
At the upper end of the 
price band (₹[●]) 
Number of 
Equity 
Shares (2) 
Share 
holding (in 
%)(2) 
Number of 
Equity 
Shares(2)  
Share holding 
(in %)(2) 
1.  Promoter 1 [Name]  [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
Promoter 2 [Name]  [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
Promoter Group(1) [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
2.  [●] [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
3.  [●] [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
………………. 
9. [●] [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
10. [●] [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
11. [●] [●] [●]% [●] [●]% [●] [●]% 
 
Notes: 
1) The Promoter Group shareholders are [●], [●] and [●]. 
2) Includes all options that have been exercised until date of 
prospectus and any transfers of equity shares by existing 
shareholders after the date of the pre -issue and price band 
advertisement until date of prospectus.   
3) Based on the Issue price of ₹[●] and subject to finalization of the 
basis of allotment.] 
 
 
609 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

258 
 
 
(F) Following details as per the restated consolidated financial statements for past 3 years and 
stub period in tabular format:  
a. Share capital;  
b. Net Worth; 
c. Revenue;  
d. Profit after tax;  
e. Earnings per share;  
f. Net Asset Value per equity share; and 
g. Total borrowings (as per balance sheet). 
(G) Auditor qualifications  which have not been given effect to in the restated financial 
statements.  
(H) Summary table of outstanding litigations and a c ross-reference to the section titled 
‘Outstanding Litigations and Material Developments’.  
(I) Cross-reference to the section titled ‘Risk Factors’. 
(J) Summary table of contingent liabilities and a cross-reference to contingent liabilities of the 
issuer as disclosed in restated financial statements.  
(K) Summary of related party transactions for last 3 yea rs and cross-reference to related party 
transactions as disclosed in restated financial statements. 
(L) Details of all financi ng arrangements whereby the promoters, members of the promoter 
group, the directors of the company which is a promoter of the issuer, the directors of the 
issuer and their relatives have financed the purchase by any other person of securities of 
the issuer other than in the normal course of the business of the financing entity during the 
period of six months immediately preceding the date of the  draft offer document /offer 
document. 
(M) Weighted average price at which specified security was acquired by  each of the promoters 
and selling shareholders in the last one year. 
(N) Average cost of acquisition of shares for promoter and selling shareholders.  
(O) Size of the pre-IPO placement and allottees, upon completion of the placement 
(P) Any issuances of equity shares made in the last one year for consideration other than cash. 
(Q) Any split/consolidation of equity shares in the last one year. 

259 
 
610[(R) Exemption from complying with any provisions of securities laws, if any, granted by 
SEBI shall be disclosed.] 
(5) Risk factors: 
(A) Risk factor s shall be printed in a clear readable font (preferably of minimum point ten 
size).  
(B) Risk factors shall be classified as those which are specific to the project and internal to the 
issuer and those which are external and beyond the control of the issuer.  
(C) Risk factors shall be determined on the basis of their materiality. In doing so, the 
following shall be considered: 
(1) Some risks may not be material individually but may be material when considered 
collectively.  
(2) Some risks may have an impact which is qualitative though not quantitative.  
(3) Some risks may not be material at present but may have a material impact in the 
future.  
(D) Each risk factor shall appear in the following manner:   
(1) The risk as envisaged by the issuer.  
(2) Proposals, if any, to address the risk.  
(E) Proposals to address the risks shall not contain any speculative statement on the positive 
outcome of any matter or litigation, etc. and shall not be given for any matter that is sub -
judice before any court/tribunal.  
(F) Risk factors shall be disclosed in the descending order of materiality. Wherever risks about 
material impact are stated, likely or potential implications, including financial implication, 
wherever quantifiable shall be disclosed. If it cannot be quantified, a distinct statement 
about the fact that the implications cannot be quantified shall be made.  
(G)  Risk factors covering the following subjects, shall necessarily be disclosed wherever 
applicable: 
(1) Material statutory clearances and approval that are yet to be received by the issuer;  
(2) Seasonality of the business of the issuer;  
(3) Any issue of the specified securities by the issuer within the last twelve months at a 
price lower than the issue price (other than bonus issues); 
(4) Where an object of the issue is to finance acquisitions and the acquisition  targets 
have not been identified, details of interim use of funds and the probable date of 
completing the acquisitions; 
 
 
610 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 

260 
 
(5) Risk associated with orders not having been placed for plant and machinery in 
relation to the objects of the issue, indicating the perc entage and value terms of the 
plant and machinery for which orders are yet to be placed 
(6) Lack of significant experience of the issuer or its promoters in the industry 
segment for which the issue is being made; 
(7) If the issuer has incurred losses in the last three financial years; 
(8) Dependence of the issuer or any of its business segments upon a single customer or 
a few customers, the loss of any one or more may have a material adverse effect on 
the issuer.  
(9) Refusal of listing of any securities of the issuer or a ny of its subsidiaries 611[***] 
during last ten years by any of the stock exchanges in India or abroad.  
(10) Failure of the issuer or any of its subsidiary 612[***] to meet the listing 
requirements of any stock exchange in India or abroad and the details of penalt y, if 
any, including suspension of trading, imposed by such stock exchanges. 
(11) Limited or sporadic trading of any specified securities of the issuer on the 
stock exchanges.  
(12) In case of outstanding debt instruments, any default in compliance with the 
material covenants such as in creation of full security as per terms of issue, default 
in payment of interest, default in redemption, non -creation of debenture 
redemption reserve, default in payment of penal interest wherever applicable, non -
availability or non -maintenance of asset cover, interest cover, debt -service cover, 
etc.  
(13) Unsecured loans, if any, taken by the issuer and its subsidiaries that can be 
recalled at any time.  
(14) Default in repayment of deposits or payment of interest thereon by the 
issuer and subsidiaries, and the roll over of liability, if any. 
(15) Potential conflict of interest of the promoters or directors of the issuer if 
involved with one or more ventures which are in the same line of activity or 
business as that of the issuer.  
(16) Shortfall in perfor mance vis -à-vis the objects stated in any of the issues 
made by the listed issuer or listed subsidiaries in the last ten years, as disclosed 
 
 
611 The words “or group companies” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. 
612 The words “or group companies” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. 

261 
 
under the heading "Performance vis -à-vis Objects" in the section "Other 
Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures", quantifying such shortfalls or delays. 
(17) Shortfall in performance vis -à-vis the objects stated in the issues made by 
any of its listed subsidiaries or listed promoter(s) in the previous five years, as 
disclosed under the heading "Performance vis -à-vis Objects" i n the section "Other 
Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures", quantifying such shortfalls or delays. 
(18) Interests of the promoters, directors 613[, key managerial personnel or senior 
management] of the issuer, other than reimbursement of expenses incurred or 
normal remuneration or benefits. 
(19) Any portion of the issue proceeds that is proposed to be paid by the issuer 
to the promoter, directors 614[, key managerial personnel or senior management ] of 
the issuer. 
(20) Relationship of the promoter or directors of the issuer with the entities from 
whom the issuer has acquired or proposes to acquire land  in the last 5 years , along 
with the relevant details. 
(21) Excessive dependence on any key managerial personnel 615[or senior 
management] for the project for which the issue is being made.  
(22) Any material investment in debt instruments by the issuer which are 
unsecured. 
(23) Non-provision for decline in the value of investments. 
(24) Summary of all outstanding litigations and other matters disclosed in the 
section titled ‘ Outstanding Litigations and  Material Developments’  in a tabular 
format along with amount involved, where quantifiable. Issuer shall also separately 
highlight any criminal, regulatory or taxation matters which may have any material 
adverse effect on the issuer. 
(25) The delay, if any, in the schedule of the implementation of the project for 
which the funds are being raised in the public issue.  
(26) If monitoring agency is not required to be appointed as per these 
Regulations, the statement that deployment of the issue proceeds is entirely at t he 
discretion of the issuer. 
 
 
613 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “or key management personnel”. 
614 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “or key managerial personnel”. 
615 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 

262 
 
(27) Negative cash flow from operating activities in the last three financial 
years.  
(28) If the l and proposed to be acquired from proceeds of the issue is not 
registered in the name of the issuer.  
(29) Any restrictive covenants as regards the interests of the equity shareholders 
in any shareholders' agreement, promoters' agreement or any other agreement for 
short term (secured and unsecured) and long term borrowings.  
(30) Existence of a large number of pending investo r grievances against the 
issuer 616[and] listed subsidiaries 617[***].  
(31) In case of issue of secured convertible debt instruments, risks associated 
with second or residual charge or subordinated obligation created on the asset 
cover.  
618[32. In case the proforma financial statements / res tated consolidated financial 
statements has been provided by a peer reviewed Chartered Accountants who is not 
statutory auditor of the Company, the Issuer Company shall put this as a Top 10 Risk 
Factor in its offer document (DRHP/RHP/Prospectus).] 
(6) Introduction: 
(A) Issue details in brief.  
(B) Summary of consolidated financial information.  
 
(7) General information: 
(A) Name and address of the registered and corporate offices, the registration number of the 
issuer, and the address of the Registrar of Companies where the issuer is registered.  
(B) Name, designation, address and DIN of each member of the board of directors of the 
issuer  
(C) Names, addresses, telephone numbers and e -mail addresses of the Company Secretary, 
legal advisor and bankers to the issuer.  
(D) Name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the compliance officer.  
(E) Names, addresses, telephone numbers, contact person, website addresses and e -mail 
addresses of the lead manager(s), registrars to the issue, bankers to the issue, brokers to the 
 
 
616 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021 for the symbol “,”. 
617 The words “ and top 5 listed group companies b y market capitalisation ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w -e-f 
13.08.2021. 
618 Inserted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 

263 
 
issue and syndicat e member(s); URL of SEBI website listing out the details of self 
certified syndicate banks, registrar  to the issue and share transfer agents, depository 
participants, etc.  
(F) Names, addresses, telephone numbers peer review number, firm registration number an d 
e-mail addresses of the auditors of the issuer.  
(G) Statement of inter-se allocation of responsibilities among lead manager(s).  
(H) Following details of credit rating in case of a public issue of convertible debt instruments: 
(a) The names of all the credit rating  agencies from which credit rating including 
unaccepted rating has been obtained for the issue of convertible debt instruments.  
(b) Details of all credit ratings, including unaccepted ratings, obtained for the public 
issue of convertible debt instruments.  
(c) All credit ratings obtained during the preceding three years prior to the filing the 
draft offer document/offer document for any of the issuer’s listed convertible debt 
instruments at the time of accessing the market through a convertible debt 
instrument.  
(I) Following details of IPO grading, if obtained:  
(a) Names of all credit rating agencies from which IPO grading has been obtained.  
(b) Details of all grades obtained from such credit rating agencies. 
(c) Rationale or description of the grading(s), as furnished by the c redit rating 
agencies. 
(J) Name, address, telephone number, website address and e -mail address of the debenture 
trustee, in case of a public issue of convertible debt instruments.  
(K) Name, address, telephone number and e -mail address of the monitoring agency, if  
appointed, and disclosure as to whether such appointment is pursuant to these regulations.  
(L) Name, address, telephone number and e -mail address of the appraising entity in case the 
project has been appraised.  
(M) Filing the draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer document: 
(a) Under this head, the office of the Board where the draft offer document/draft letter 
of offer/offer document has been filed. 
(b) Address of the Registrar of Companies, where copy of the offer document, having 
attached thereto the materi al contracts and documents referred to elsewhere in the 
offer document, has been filed. 
(N) Where the issue is being made through the book building process, the brief explanation of 
the book building process.  
(O) Details of underwriting:  

264 
 
(a) Names, addresses, teleph one numbers, and e -mail addresses of the underwriters 
and the amount underwritten by each of them.  
(b) Declaration by the board of directors of the issuer that the underwriters have 
sufficient resources to discharge their respective obligations  
(c) In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of such underwriting.  
(d) Details of the final underwriting arrangement indicating actual number of specified 
securities underwritten , to be provided in the prospectus before it is filed with the 
Registrar of Companies. 
(P) Changes in the auditors during the last three years along with name, address, email 
address, peer review number and firm registration number of auditors and reasons thereof. 
(Q) Green Shoe Option, if applicable: 
(a) Name of the stabilising agent. 
(b) Maximum number of equity shares in number and as a percentage of the proposed 
issue size, proposed to be over-allotted by the issuer. 
(c) Maximum period for which the issuer proposes to avail of the stabilisation 
mechanism;  
(d) the stabilising agent shall disclose if it prop oses to close the stabilisation 
mechanism prior to the maximum period.  
(e) Maximum increase in the equity share capital of the issuer and the post -issue 
shareholding pattern,  in case the issuer is required to allot further equity shares to 
the extent of over-allotment in the issue. 
(f) Maximum amount of funds to be received by the issuer in case of further allotment 
and the use of these additional funds.  
(g) Details of the agreement or arrangement entered into by the stabilising agent with 
the promoters or sharehold ers to borrow equity shares from the latter. The details 
shall, inter-alia, include the name of the promoters or shareholders, their existing 
shareholding in the issuer, the number and percentage of equity shares to be lent by 
them and other important term s and conditions including rights and obligations of 
each party.  
(h) Exact number of equity shares to be allotted/transferred pursuant to the public 
issue, stating separately the number of equity shares to be borrowed from the 
promoters or shareholders and ov er-allotted by the stabilising agent and the 
percentage of such equity shares in relation to the total issue size. 
 
(8) Capital structure: 

265 
 
(A) The capital structure in the following order in a tabular form:  
(a) Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid -up capital (numb er of securities, 
description and aggregate nominal value).  
(b) Size of the present issue, giving separately the promoters’ contribution, if any,  
reservation for specified categories, if any, and net offer (number of securities, 
description, aggregate nomina l value and issue amount (to be disclosed in that 
order) and applicable percentages in case of a book built issue.  
(c) Paid-up capital:  
(i) After the issue.  
(ii) After conversion of convertible instruments (if applicable). 
(d) Share premium account (before and after the issue).  
(B) The following tables/notes shall be included after the table of the capital structure:  
(a) Details of the existing share capital of the issuer in a tabular form, indicating 
therein with regard to each allotment, the date of allotment, the name of al lottee, 
nature of allotment, the number of shares allotted, the face value of the shares, the 
issue price and the form of consideration.  
(b) Where shares have been issued for consideration other than cash or out of 
revaluation reserves at any point of time, d etails in a separate table, indicating the 
date of issue, date of revaluation of assets, persons to whom issued, price, reasons 
for the issue and whether any benefits have accrued to the issuer out of the issue.  
(c) If shares have been allotted in terms of any scheme of arrangement approved under 
sections 391 -394 of the Companies Act, 1956 or sections 230 -234 of the 
Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, the details of such shares allotted, along with 
the page numbers where details of such scheme is given.  
(d)  Where the issuer has issued equity shares under one or more employee stock 
option schemes, particulars of equity shares issued under the employee stock 
option schemes may be aggregated quarter -wise, indicating the aggregate number 
of equity shares issued and t he price range within which equity shares have been 
issued in each quarter.  
(e) If the issuer has made any issue of specified securities at a price lower than the 
issue price during the preceding one year, specific details of the names of the 
persons to whom such specified securities have been issued, whether they are part 
of the promoter group, reasons for such issue and the price. 

266 
 
(f) Shareholding pattern of the issuer in the format as prescribed under 619[regulation 
31] of the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:   
(i) Following details regarding major shareholders: Names of the shareholders 
of the issuer holding 1% or more of the paid -up capital of the issuer as on 
the date of filing of the draft offer document/ or end of last week from the 
date of draft letter of offer and the offer document, as the case may be.  
Provided that details of shareholding aggregating at least 80% of capital of 
company shall be disclosed. 
(ii) Number of equity shares held by  the shareholders specified in clause (i) 
including number of equity shares which they would be entitled to upon 
exercise of warrant, option or right to convert a debenture, loan or other 
instrument.  
(iii) Particulars specified in items (i) and (ii) as on a dat e two years prior to the 
date of filing of the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer and the offer 
document, as the case may be.  
(iv) Particulars specified in items (i) and (ii) as on a date one year prior to the 
date of filing of the draft offer documen t/ draft letter of offer and the offer 
document, as the case may be.  
(v) The particulars specified in items (i) and (ii) as on a date ten days prior to 
the date of date of filing of the draft offer document/ draft letter of offer and 
the offer document, as the case may be.  
(vi) If the issuer has made an initial public offer of specified securities in the 
preceding two years, the particulars specified in items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) 
shall be disclosed to indicate separately the names of the persons who 
acquired equity shares by subscription to the public issue and those who 
acquired the equity shares by allotment on a firm basis or through private 
placement.  
(g) Proposal or intention, negotiations and consideration of the issuer to alter the 
capital structure by way of split or consolidation of the denomination of the shares, 
or issue of specified securities on a preferential basis or issue of bonus or rights or 
further public offer of specified securities, within a period of six months from the 
date of opening of the issue. 
 
 
619 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “Regulation 33”. 

267 
 
(h) Total shareholding of each of the promoters in a tabular form, with the name of the 
promoter, nature of issue, date of allotment/transfer, number of shares, face value, 
issue price/ consideration, date when the shares were made fully paid-up, percentage 
of the total pre and post -issue capital,  if any and the number and percentage of 
pledged shares, if any, held by each promoter.  
(i) The number of members/shareholders of the issuer.  
(j) Details of:  
(i) the aggregate shareholding of the promoter group and of  the directors of the 
promoters, where the promoter is a body corporate.  
(ii) the aggregate number of specified securities purchased or sold by the promoter 
group and/or by the directors of the company which is a promoter of the issuer 
and/or by the directors of the issuer and their relatives  in the preceding six 
months.    
(iii) all financing arrangements whereby the promoter group, the directors of the 
company which is a promoter of the issuer, the directors of the issuer and their 
relatives have financed the purc hase by any other person of securities of the 
issuer other than in the normal course of the business of the financing entity in 
the six months immediately preceding the date of filing of the draft offer 
document/offer document.  
(iv) In case it is not possible to obtain information regarding sales and purchases 
of specified securities by any relatives of the promoter, details on the basis of 
the transfers as recorded in the books of the issuer and/or the depository, as 
applicable and a statement to such effect.  
(k) Promoters’ contribution: 
(i) Details of promoters’ contribution and lock -in period in a tabular form, 
separately in respect of each promoter  by name, with the date of allotment 
of specified securities, the date when fully paid -up, the nature of allotment 
(rights, bonus, preferential etc.), the number, face value and issue price, the 
percentage of promoters’ contribution to total issued capital and the date up 
to which the specified securities are subject to lock-in.  
(ii) In the case of an initial public offer, details of all individual allotments from 
the date of incorporation of the issuer and in case of a further public offer 
by a listed issuer, such details for the preceding five years. 
(iii) In case of further public offers or rights issues,  shares acquired by the 
promoters through a public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, bonus 

268 
 
issue, conversion of depository receipts or under any employee stock option 
scheme or employee stock purchase scheme to be shown separately from 
the shares acquired in the secondary market and its aggregate cost of shares 
acquired in the secondary market, if available. 
(iv) Details of compliance with applicable provisions of these regulations with 
respect to promoters’’ contribution and lock-in requirements.   
(v) If the issuer is exempt from th e requirements of promoters’ contribution, 
the relevant provisions under which it is so exempt. 
(vi) A statement that the promoter undertakes to accept full conversion, if the 
promoters’ contribution is in terms of the same optionally convertible debt 
instrument as is being offered to the public.  
(l) A statement that the issuer, its directors or the lead manager(s) have not entered 
into any buy -back arrangements for purchase of the specified securities of the 
issuer. 
(m) A statement that all securities offered through the issue shall be made fully paid-up, 
if applicable,  or may be forfeited for non -payment of calls within twelve months 
from the date of allotment of securities.  
(n) Details of shareholding, if any, of the lead manager(s) and their associates (as 
defined und er the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992) in the issuer.  
(o) Details of options granted or equity shares issued under any scheme of employee 
stock option or employee stock purchase of issuer, in the preceding three ye ars 
(separately for each year) and on a cumulative basis for all options or equity shares 
issued prior to the date of the offer document.  
(p) The following details in cases where options granted to employees in pursuance of 
any employee stock option scheme ex isting prior to the initial public offer, are 
outstanding at the time of the initial public offer:  
(i) options granted; 
(ii) options vested; 
(iii) options exercised; 
(iv) the exercise price; 
(v) the total number of shares arising as a result of exercise of option; 
(vi) options lapsed; 
(vii) variation of terms of options; 
(viii) money realised by exercise of options; 

269 
 
(ix) total number of options in force; 
(x) employee-wise details of options granted to:  
 key managerial personnel 620[and senior management];  
 any other employee who receives a grant in any one y ear of options 
amounting to five per cent. or more of options granted during that year; 
 identified employees who were granted options, during any one year, 
equal to or exceeding one per cent. of the issued capital (excluding 
outstanding warrants and conversions) of the issuer at the time of grant; 
(xi) diluted Earnings Per Share pursuant to the issue of equity shares on 
exercise of options calculated in accordance with applicable accounting 
standard  on ‘Earnings Per Share’. 
(xii) where the issuer has calculated the e mployee compensation cost using the 
intrinsic value of the stock options, the difference between the employee 
compensation cost so computed and the employee compensation cost that 
shall have been recognised if it had used the fair value of the options and 
the impact of this difference on profits and on the Earnings Per Share of the 
issuer. 
(xiii) description of the pricing formula and the method and significant 
assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair values of options, 
including weighted -average info rmation, namely, risk -free interest rate, 
expected life, expected volatility, expected dividends, and the price of the 
underlying share in market at the time of grant of the option.  
(xiv) impact on the profits and on the Earnings Per Share of the last three yea rs if 
the issuer had followed the accounting policies specified in 621[Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021 ], in respect of options granted in the last three 
years. 
(xv) intention of the key man agerial personnel 622[, senior management]  and 
whole-time directors who are holders of equity shares allotted on exercise 
of options granted under an employee stock option scheme or allotted under 
 
 
620 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
621 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023  for the words and symbol s “Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014”.  
622 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital an d Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 

270 
 
an employee stock purchase scheme, to sell their equity share s within three 
months after the date of listing of the equity shares in the initial public offer 
(aggregate number of equity shares intended to be sold by the holders of 
options), if any. In case of an employee stock option scheme, this 
information same shall be disclosed regardless of whether the equity shares 
arise out of options exercised before or after the initial public offer.  
(xvi) specific disclosures about the intention to sell equity shares arising out of 
an employee stock option scheme or allotted und er an employee stock 
purchase scheme within three months after the date of listing, by directors, 
623[key managerial personnel, senior management ] and employees having 
equity shares issued under an employee stock option scheme or employee 
stock purchase scheme amounting to more than one per cent. of the issued 
capital (excluding outstanding warrants and conversions), which inter -alia 
shall include name, designation and quantum of the equity shares issued 
under an employee stock option scheme or employee stock  purchase 
scheme and the quantum they intend to sell within three months. 
(xvii) details of the number of shares issued in employee share purchase scheme, 
the price at which such shares are issued, employee -wise details of the 
shares issued to  
• key managerial personnel 624[and senior management];  
• any other employee who is issued shares in any one year amounting 
to 5 per cent. or more shares issued during that year;  
• identified employees who were issued shares during any one year 
equal to or exceeding 1 per cent. of the issued capital of the company 
at the time of issuance; 
(xviii) diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to issuance of shares under 
employee share purchase scheme; and consideration received against the 
issuance of shares. 
(q) In case of a further public o ffer by a listed issuer, which has earlier (after being a 
listed issuer) made any preferential allotment or bonus issue or qualified 
institutions placement of specified securities in the ten years preceding the date of 
 
 
623 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “senior managerial personnel”. 
624 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 

271 
 
the draft offer document/offer docume nt, a confirmation that the relevant 
provisions of the regulations have been complied with.  
 
(9) Particulars of the issue: 
(A) Objects of the issue: 
(1) Objects of the issue.  
(2) If one of the objects of the issue is loan repayment: 
(a) details of loan proposed to be repaid  such as name of the lender, brief terms 
and conditions and amount outstanding; 
(b) certificate from the statutory auditor certifying the utilization of loan for the 
purposed availed. 
625[Provided that such certificate may be obtained from the Chartered 
Accountant, holding a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for:  
(i) the periods not audited by the current statutory auditor; or 
(ii) the loan which is proposed to be repaid was availed by a s ubsidiary 
and the current statutory auditor of the issuer is not the statutory auditor of 
the subsidiary.] 
(3) If one of the objects is investment in a joint venture or a subsidiary or an 
acquisition, following additional disclosures: 
(a) details of the form of investment, i.e., equity, debt or any other instrument; 
(b) If the form of investment has not been decided, a statement to that effect; 
(c) If the investment is in debt instruments, complete details regarding rate of 
interest, nature of security, terms of repayment, subordination, etc.;  
(d) Nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a result of the investment 
(4) If one of the objects of the issue is to grant a loan to an entity other than a 
subsidiary, details of the loan agreements, including the rate of intere st, whether 
secured or unsecured, duration, nature of security, terms of repayment, 
subordination etc. and the nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a 
result of the investment. If such a loan is to be granted to any of the group 
companies, details of the same.  
 
 
625 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disc losure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

272 
 
(5) If one of the objects of the issue is utilisation of the issue proceeds for long term 
working capital, the following additional disclosures on a standalone basis  626[, 
based on audited standalone financial statements]:   
(a) Basis of estima tion of working capital requirement along with the relevant 
assumptions. 
(b) Reasons for raising additional working capital substantiating the same with 
relevant facts and figures. 
(c) Details of the projected working capital requirement, including detailed 
assessment of working capital after implementation of the project or 
achievement of objects of the issue, as the case may be, capacity utilisation 
assumptions, break up of expected current assets into raw materials, finished 
goods, work in progress, sundry debto rs etc., with assumption about the 
holding norms for each type of current asset, total current liabilities, net 
current assets and envisaged sources of finance for net current assets, i.e., 
bank finance, institutional finance, own funds, etc. 
(d) Total envisag ed working capital requirement in a tabular form, the margin 
money thereof and the portion to be financed by any bank(s) or otherwise.  
(e) Details of the existing working capital available to the issuer with a break up 
for total current assets into raw materi als, finished goods, work in progress, 
sundry debtors, etc., total current liabilities, net current assets and sources of 
finance for net current assets i.e. bank finance, institutional finance, own 
funds etc.  
(f) If no working capital is shown as a part of p roject for which the issue is 
being made, the reasons for the same. 
627[Provided that such standalone financial statements shall be restated if there are any 
restatements/ adjustments in the restated consolidated financial statements which 
may have impact on the audited standalone financial statements.] 
(6) Land: 
(a) Names of the entities from whom land has been acquired/ proposed to be 
acquired along with the cost of acquisition, and the relationship, if any, of such 
 
 
626 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
627 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

273 
 
entities to any promoter or director of the issue r, in case the proceeds of the 
issue are being utilised for acquisition of land.  
(b) Details of whether the land acquired by the issuer is free from all 
encumbrances and has a clear title and whether it is registered in the name of 
the issuer.  
(c) Details of whe ther the issuer has applied/ received all the approvals 
pertaining to land. If no such approvals are required to be taken by the issuer, 
then this fact may be indicated by way of an affirmative statement.  
(d) Figures appearing under this section shall be cons istent with the figures 
appearing under the section "Cost of the Project". 
(7) Project: 
If one of the objects of the issue is to fund a project, details of: 
(a) location of the project; 
(b) plant and machinery, technology, process, etc.; 
i) Details shall be given in a ta bular form, which shall include the details of 
the machines required to be bought by the issuer, cost of the machines, 
name of the suppliers, date of placement of order and the date or expected 
date of supply, etc.  
ii) In case machines are yet to be delivered , the date of quotations relied upon 
for the cost estimates given shall also be mentioned.  
iii) The percentage and value terms of the plant and machinery for which 
orders are yet to be placed shall be stated.  
(c) The details of the second hand machinery bought or  proposed to be bought, if 
any, including the age of the machines, balance estimated life, etc. shall also be 
given. collaboration, performance guarantee if any, or assistance in marketing 
by the collaborators.   The following information regarding persons or entities 
with whom technical and financial agreements have been entered into shall be 
given:  
i) place of registration and year of incorporation.  
ii) paid up share capital.  
iii) turnover of the last financial year of operation.  
iv) general information regarding such persons relevant to the issuer.  
(d) infrastructure facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, etc.  
(8) Property: 

274 
 
If one of the object of the issue is to purchase any property, where arrangements 
have been made, details of: 
(a) names address, descriptions and occupations of the vendors;  
(b) the amount paid or payable in cash, shares or debentures to the vendor and, 
where there is more than one separate vendor, or the issuer is a sub purchaser, 
the amount so paid or payable to each vendor, specif ying separately the 
amount, if any, paid or payable for goodwill;  
(c) nature of the title or interest in such property acquired or to be acquired by the 
issuer;  
(d) short particulars of every transaction relating to the property completed within 
the two preceding years, in which any vendor of the property to the issuer or 
any person who is, or was at the time of the transaction, a promoter, or a 
director or proposed director of the issuer had any interest, direct or indirect, 
specifying the date of the transactio n and the name of such promoter, director 
or proposed director and stating the amount payable by or to such vendor, 
promoter, director or proposed director in respect of the transaction.  
(e) The property to which 628[sub-clauses (a) to (d) apply] is a property purchased 
or acquired by the issuer or proposed to be purchased or acquired, which is to 
be paid for wholly or partly out of the proceeds of the issue or the purchase or 
acquisition of which has not been completed as of the date of the draft offer 
document or offer document, as the case may be.  
(9) Plant/ Equipment/ Technology/ Process: 
If one of the objects of the issue is to purchase any plant, machinery, technology, 
process, etc.  
(i) Details in a tabular form, which shall include the details of the equipment 
required to be bought by the issuer, cost of the equipment, name of the 
suppliers, date of placement of order and the date or expected date of supply, 
etc.  
(ii) In case the order for the equipment is yet to be placed, the date of quotations 
relied upon for the cost estimates given.  
(iii)The percentage and value terms of the equipment for which orders are yet to be 
placed.  
 
 
628 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “sub-clause (a) applies”. 

275 
 
(iv) The details of the second hand equipment bought or proposed to be bought, if 
any, including the age of the machines, balance estimated life, etc. 
(10) In case of a public issue of secured convertible debt instruments,: description of the 
assets on which the security shall be created/asset cover, if required, shall be 
created, the basis for computation of the security cover, the valuation methods, the 
periodicity of such valuation and the ranking of the charge(s).  
(11) If warrants are issued, the objects for which the funds from conversions of warrants 
are proposed to be used.  
 
(B) Requirement of funds: 
(1) Where the issuer proposes to undertake more than one activi ty or project, such as 
diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total project cost activity -wise 
or project wise, as the case may be.  
(2) Where the issuer is implementing the project in a phased manner, the cost of each 
phase, including the phase,  if any, which has already been implemented, shall be 
separately given.  
(3) Details of all material existing or anticipated transactions in relation to utilisation 
of the issue proceeds or project cost with promoters, promoter group, directors, key 
managerial personnel, 629[senior management] and group companies. The relevant 
documents shall be included in the list of material documents for inspection.  
 
(C) Funding plan (means of finance): 
(1) An undertaking  by the issuer confirming that firm arrangements of finance h ave 
been made through verifiable means towards seventy five per cent. of the stated 
means of finance for the project proposed to be funded from issue proceeds, 
excluding the amount to be raised through proposed issue and existing identifiable 
internal accruals.  
(2) Balance portion of the means of finance for which no firm arrangement has been 
made without specification.  
(3) Details of funds tied up and the avenues for deployment of excess proceeds, if any. 
 
(D) Appraisal: 
(1) Scope and purpose of the appraisal, if any, along with the date of appraisal.  
 
 
629 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 

276 
 
(2) Cost of the project and means of finance shall be as per the appraisal report.  
(3) Explanation of revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of finance after 
the date of issue of the appraisal report.  
(4) Weaknesses and  threats, if any, given in the appraisal report, by way of risk 
factors.  
(5) Disclaimer clauses of the appraisal report, as applicable. 
 
(E) Schedule of implementation: Schedule of implementation of the project in a tabular form 
and the progress made so far, givi ng details of land acquisition,  civil works, installation of 
plant and machinery, trial production, date of commercial production and reasons for delay, 
if any.  
 
(F) Deployment of Funds: 
(1) Details of the sources of funds and the deployment of these funds on the  project 
(where the issuer is raising capital for a project), up to a date not earlier than two 
months from the date of filing of the offer document, as certified by a statutory 
auditor of the issuer and the date of the certificate. 
(2) Where the promoters’ co ntribution has been brought prior to the public issue, 
which is utilised towards means of finance for the stated objects and has already 
been deployed by the issuer, a cash flow statement from the statutory auditor, 
disclosing the use of such funds received as promoters’ contribution.  
 
(G) Sources of Financing of Funds Already Deployed: Means and source of financing, 
including details of bridge loan or other financial arrangement, which may be repaid from 
the proceeds of the issue. 
 
(H) Deployment of Balance Funds : Year-wise break -up of the expenditure proposed to be 
incurred on the project. 
 
(I) Interim Use of Funds: A statement that net issue proceeds pending utilization (for the stated 
objects) shall be deposited only in the scheduled commercial banks. 
 
(J) Expenses of the Issue:  Expenses of the issue along with a break up for each item of 
expense, including details of the fees payable to separately as under (in terms of amount, as a 
percentage of total issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue size): 

277 
 
(1) Lead manager(s) fees including underwriting commission 
(2) Brokerage, selling commission and upload fees 
(3) Registrars to the issue 
(4) Legal Advisors 
(5) Advertising and marketing expenses 
(6) Regulators including stock exchanges  
(7) Printing and distribution of issue stationary  
(8) Others, if any (to be specified). 
 
(K) Basis for Issue Price:  
(1) The basis for issue price, floor price or price band, as the case may be, on a 
consolidated basis , after giving effect to any bonus or split of shares undertaken 
after the last balance sheet date: 
(a) Earnings Per Share and Diluted Earnings Per Share, pre -issue, for the last 
three years (as adjusted for changes in capital).  
(b) Price to Earnings ratio pre-issue.  
(c) Average Return on Net Worth in the last three years.  
(d) Net Asset Value per share based on the last balance sheet.  
(e) Net Asset Value per share after the issue and comparison thereof with the 
issue price.  
(f) An illustrative format of disclosure in respect of the basis for issue price is 
given hereunder:  
 
630[ 
 
 
630 Substituted by the Securities a nd Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 . Prior to the substitution, the illustrative format table  read as 
under: 
(1) Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) and Adjusted Diluted 
EPS 
 
 (a) Financial Year 1               ` 0.41 
 (b) Financial Year 2               `  8.39 
 (c) Financial Year 3                ` 13.82 
 (d) Weighted Average      ` 10.94 
(2) Price to Earnings Ratio (P/E) in relation to Issue Price  
 (a) Based on Financial Year 3 EPS     37.63 
 (b) Industry P/E         
 (i) Highest         61.2 
 (ii) Lowest             0.8 
 (iii) Average          25.3 
 (*Indicate relevant source)  
(3) Return on Net Worth  
 (a) Financial Year 1               27.36 per cent. 

278 
 
 
(1)  
 
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) and 
Adjusted Diluted EPS  
 
  
(a) Financial Year 1  
 
 
₹ 0.41**   
  
(b) Financial Year 2  
 
 
₹ 8.39 ** 
  
(c) Financial Year 3  
 
 
₹ 13.82 ** 
  
(d) Weighted Average  
 
 
 
(2)  
 
Price to Earnings Ratio (P/E) in relation to 
Issue Price  
 
  
(a) Based on Financial Year 3 EPS  
 
 
37.63  
  
(b) Industry P/E  
 
  
(i) Highest  
 
 
61.2  
  
(ii) Lowest  
 
 
0.8  
  
(iii) Average  
 
 
25.3  
 (*Indicate relevant source)  
 
(3)  
 
 
Return on Net Worth  
 
  
(a) Financial Year 1  
 
 
27.36 per 
cent.**  
  
(b) Financial Year 2  
 
 
28.77 per 
cent. ** 
  
(c) Financial Year 3  
 
33.45 per 
 
 
 (b) Financial Year 2               28.77 per cent. 
 (c) Financial Year 3              33.45 per cent. 
 (d) Weighted Average       30.88 per cent. 
(4) Net Asset Value   
 (a) As at last day of Financial Year 3         ` 46.40 
 (b) After issue          ` 94.29 
 (c) Issue price          ` 520.00 
 

279 
 
 cent. ** 
  
(d) Weighted Average  
 
 
 
(4)  
 
 
Net Asset Value  
 
  
(a) As at last day of Financial Year 3  
 
 
₹ 46.40  
  
(b) After issue  
 
 
₹ 94.29  
  
(c) Issue price  
 
 
₹ 520.00  
 
] 
 
 * Formula or basis for calculation of these financial ratios to also be 
disclosed. 
631[**The entries shown in the above table are for illustrative purposes only. Lead 
manager(s) shall exercise due diligence and satisfy themselves before 
assigning weights.] 
 
(g) Comparison of accounting ratios of the issuer as mentioned in items (a) to 
(f) above with the industry average and with the accounting ratios of the 
peer group (i. e. companies of comparable size in the same industry), 
indicating the source from which industry average and accounting ratios of 
the peer group has been taken. In this regard, the following shall be 
ensured: 
 Consistency in comparison of financial ratios o f issuer with 
companies in the peer group, i.e., ratios on consolidated basis 
(wherever applicable) of issuer shall be compared with ratios on 
consolidated basis (wherever applicable) of peer group, 
respectively. 
 
 
631 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

280 
 
Financial information relating to companies  in the peer group shall be 
extracted from the regulatory filings made by such companies to compute 
the corresponding financial ratios. 
(h) The fact of dilution of financial ratios consequent upon issue of bonus 
shares, if any, and justification of the issue p rice after taking into account 
the diluted ratios with reference to the expanded capital. 
(i) The following statement in case of a book built issue : 
"The price band/floor price/issue price has been determined by the issuer 
in consultation with the lead manager(s), on the basis of book-building." 
(j) The following statement In case of a fixed price issue : 
"The issue price has been determined by the issuer in consultation with the 
lead manager(s)  and justified by the issuer in consultation with the lead 
manager(s) on the basis of the above information.”  
(k) Accounting ratios in support of basis of the issue price shall be calculated 
after giving effect to the consequent increase in capital on account of 
compulsory conversions outstanding, as well as on the assumption t hat the 
options outstanding, if any, to subscribe for additional capital will be 
exercised.  
(2) Issue of debt instruments bearing interest less than the bank rate:  Whenever fully 
convertible debt instruments are issued bearing interest at a rate less than the  bank 
rate, disclosures about the price that would work out to the investor, taking into 
account the notional interest loss on the investment from the date of allotment of 
fully convertible debt instruments to the date(s) of conversions). 
632[(3)  For all th e Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) disclosed in the offer document, the  
Issuer Company and the lead merchant bankers (LMs) shall ensure the following: 
(a) KPIs disclosed in the offer document and the terms used in KPIs shall be 
defined consistently and preci sely in the “Definitions and Abbreviations” 
section of the offer document using simple English terms /phrases so as to 
enable easy understanding of the contents. Technical terms, if any, used in 
explaining the KPIs shall be further clarified in simple terms. 
(b) KPIs disclosed in the offer document shall be approved by the Audit 
Committee of the Issuer Company. 
 
 
632 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital an d Disclosure Requirements) ( Fourth 
Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w -e-f 21.11.2022, and shall be applicable for all issues where Red Herring 
Prospectus is filed with the Registrars of Companies on or after the 21.11.2022.  

281 
 
(c) KPIs disclosed in the offer document shall be certified by the statutory 
auditor(s) or Chartered Accountants or firm of Charted Accountants, holding a 
valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India or by Cost Accountants, holding a valid certificate issued 
by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Cost Accountants of India. 
(d) Certificate issued with r espect to KPIs shall be included in the list of material 
documents for inspection. 
(e) For each KPI being disclosed in the offer document, the details thereof shall be 
provided for period which will be co -terminus with the period for which the 
restated financial information is disclosed in the offer document.  
(f) KPIs disclosed in the offer document should be comprehensive and 
explanation shall be provided on how these KPIs have been used by the 
management historically to analyse, track or monitor the operational and/or 
financial performance of the Issuer Company. 
(g) Comparison of KPIs over time shall be explained based on additions or 
dispositions to the business, if any. For e.g. in case the Issuer Company has 
undertaken a material acquisition or disposition of asse ts / business for the 
periods that are covered by the KPIs, the KPIs shall reflect and explain the 
same.  
(h) For ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section, the following disclosures shall be made:  
(i) Disclosure of all the KPIs pertaining to the Issuer Company that have b een 
disclosed to its investors at any point of time during the three years 
preceding to the date of filing of the DRHP / RHP. 
(ii) Confirmation by the Audit Committee of the Issuer Company that verified 
and audited details for all the KPIs pertaining to the Iss uer Company that 
have been disclosed to the earlier investors at any point of time during the 
three years period prior to the date of filing of the DRHP / RHP are 
disclosed under ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section of the offer document.  
(iii) Issuer Company in con sultation with the lead merchant banker may make 
disclosure of any other relevant and material KPIs of the business of the 
Issuer Company as it deems appropriate that have a bearing for arriving at 
the basis for issue price.  
(iv) Cross reference of KPIs disclosed in other sections of the offer document to 
be provided in the ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section of the offer document. 

282 
 
(v) For the KPIs disclosed under the ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section, disclosure 
of the comparison with Indian listed peer companies and/ o r global listed 
peer companies, as the case may be (wherever available). The set of peer 
companies shall include companies of comparable size, from the same 
industry and with similar business model (if one to one comparison is not 
possible, appropriate notes to explain the differences may be included). 
(i) The Issuer Company shall continue to disclose the KPIs which were disclosed 
in the ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section of the offer document, on a periodic basis, 
at least once in a year (or for any lesser period  as determined by the Issuer 
Company), for a duration that is at least the later of (i) one year after the listing 
date or period specified by the Board; or (ii) till the utilization of the issue 
proceeds as per the disclosure made in the objects of the is sue section of the 
prospectus. Any change in these KPIs, during the aforementioned period, shall 
be explained by the Issuer Company. The ongoing KPIs shall continue to be 
certified by a member of an expert body as per clause 3(c). 
(4)  For issue price, floor price or price band, as the case may be, disclosed in the offer 
document, the Issuer Company and the lead merchant banker (LMs) shall disclose 
the details with respect to the following: 
(a) Price per share of Issuer Company based on primary / new issue of s hares 
(equity/convertible securities), excluding shares issued under ESOP/ESOS 
and issuance of bonus shares, during the 18 months preceding the date of 
filing of the DRHP / RHP, where such issuance is equal to or more than 5 per 
cent of the fully diluted p aid-up share capital of the Issuer Company 
(calculated based on the pre -issue capital before such transaction/s and 
excluding employee stock options granted but not vested), in a single 
transaction or multiple transactions combined together over a span of rolling 
30 days; and  
(b) Price per share of Issuer Company based on secondary sale / acquisition of 
shares (equity/convertible securities), where promoter / promoter group 
entities or shareholder(s) selling shares through offer for sale in IPO or 
shareholder(s) having the right to nominate director(s) in the Board of the 
Issuer Company are a party to the transaction  (excluding gifts), during the 18 
months preceding the date of filing of the DRHP / RHP, where either 
acquisition or sale is equal to or more than  5 per cent  of the fully diluted 
paid-up share capital of the Issuer Company (calculated based on the pre -

283 
 
issue capital before such transaction/s and excluding employee stock options 
granted but not vested), in a single transaction or multiple transaction s 
combined together over  a span of rolling 30 days .  
 
       Note: 1. In case there are no such transactions to report under (a) and (b), 
then the information shall be disclosed for price per share of the Issuer 
Company based on last 5 primary or seconda ry transactions (secondary 
transactions where promoter / promoter group entities or shareholder(s) 
selling shares through offer for sale in IPO or shareholder(s) having the right 
to nominate director(s) in the Board of the Issuer Company, are a party to th e 
transaction), not older than 3 years prior to the date of filing of the DRHP / 
RHP, irrespective of the size of transactions.  
       2. Price per share disclosed, shall be adjusted for corporate actions e.g. split, 
bonus etc. done by the Issuer Company.  
(c) Floor price and cap price being [●] times the weighted average cost of 
acquisition (WACA) based on primary/ secondary transaction(s) as disclosed 
in terms of clause (a) and (b) or Note 1 above, shall be disclosed in the 
following manner: 
Past Transactions WACA 
(in Rs.) 
IPO Floor 
Price in Rs. [●] 
IPO Cap 
Price in Rs. 
[●] 
WACA of Primary 
issuance 
 [●] times [●] times 
WACA of 
Secondary 
transactions 
 [●] times [●] times 
(d) Detailed explanation for offer price / cap price being [●] times of WACA of 
Primary issuance price / Secondary transaction price, along with comparison 
of Issuer Company’s KPIs and financials ratios for the last three full financial 
years and stub period (if any) included in the offer document.  
(e) Explanation for offer price / cap price being [● ] times of WACA of Primary 
issuance price / Secondary transaction price in view of the external factors 
which may have influenced the pricing of the issue, if any.    
(f) Table at para (c) above shall be disclosed in the Price Band Advertisement 
under ‘Risks t o Investors’ section. Recommendation of a Committee of 
Independent Directors to be included in the price band advertisement stating 
that the price band is justified based on quantitative factors / KPIs disclosed 

284 
 
in ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section vis -à-vis the WACA of primary issuance / 
secondary transaction(s) disclosed in ‘Basis for Issue Price’ section.] 
 
(L) Tax Benefits: Any special tax benefits (under direct and indirect tax laws) for the issuer and 
its shareholders and its material subsidiaries identifie d in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015.  
 
(10) About the Issuer:  
 633[ 
(A) Industry Overview 
If extract of any industry report is disclosed in the offer document, the comple te industry 
report shall be provided as part of the material documents.] 
 
(B) Business Overview  
(1) Details of the business of the issuer:  
(a) Primary business of the Issuer; 
(b) Plant, machinery, technology, process, etc.  
(c) Description of subsisting collaborations,, any  performance guarantee or 
assistance in marketing by the collaborators , infrastructure facilities for raw 
materials and utilities like water, electricity, etc.  
(d) Products or services of the issuer:  
(i) Nature of the product(s)/services, and the end users.  
(ii) Approach to marketing of products and services  
 
(2) Business Strategy: Description of the business strategy of the issuer, without any 
forecast of projections relating to the financial performance of the issuer 
 
(3) Capacity and Capacity Utilisation: A table shall b e incorporated giving the 
existing installed capacities for each product, capacity utilisation for such products 
in the previous three years.  
 
(4) Intellectual Property Rights: 
 
 
633 Substituted by the Securities an d Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023 for the words and symbol “(A) Industry Overview”. 

285 
 
(a) If the issuer is entitled to certain intellectual property rights such as 
trademarks, brand names, etc. whether the same are legally held by the issuer 
and whether all formalities in this regard have been complied with. 
(b) In case any of the material intellectual property rights are not registered in the 
name of the issuer, the name of the entity with which these are registered.  
(c) In case the intellectual property rights are registered in the name of an entity 
in which the promoters are interested, the salient features of the agreement 
entered into for the use of the intellectual property rights by the issuer. 
  
(5) Property: Details of its material properties  
 
(C) Key Industry-Regulations (if applicable):  
 
(D) History and Corporate Structure of the issuer:  
(1) History including the following details:  
(a) Details of the issuer such as the date of incorporati on, date of 
commencement of business, date of conversion of partnership into limited 
company or private limited company to public limited company, as 
applicable, dates on which names have been changed, if applicable, reasons 
for change of name, changes in registered offices of the issuer and reasons 
thereof.  
(b) Details of the major events in the history of the issuer, such as: 
(i) Significant financial or strategic partnerships 
(ii) Time/cost overrun in setting up projects 
(iii) Capacity/facility creation, location of plants  
(iv) launch of key products or services, entry in new geographies or exit 
from existing markets 
(v) Key awards, accreditations or recognition  
(vi) Defaults or rescheduling/ restructuring of borrowings with financial 
institutions/ banks  
(c) Details regarding material acquisitions or divestments of 
business/undertakings, mergers, amalgamation, any revaluation of assets 
etc., if any, in the last ten years. 
 

286 
 
(2)  Main objects as set out in the Memorandum of Association of the issuer and dates 
on which the Memorandum of Associat ion of the issuer has been amended citing 
the details of such amendments in the last ten years  
 
(3) Details regarding holding company, subsidiary/subsidiaries and joint venture(s) , if 
applicable, of the issuer including:  
(a) Name of the holding company/subsidiary/joint venture; 
(b) nature of business; 
(c) capital structure; 
(d) shareholding of the issuer;  
(e) amount of accumulated profits or losses of the subsidiary(ies) not 
accounted for by the issuer.  
 
(E) Shareholders' agreements and other agreements:  
(a) Key terms of all subsisting shareholders’ agreements, if any (to be provided even if 
the issuer is not a party to such an agreement, but is aware of such an agreement).  
(b) Any agreement entered into by a key managerial personnel  634[or senior 
management]  or director or promoter or an y other employee of the issuer, either 
by themselves or on behalf of any other person, with any shareholder or any other 
third party with regard to compensation or profit sharing in connection with 
dealings in the securities of the issuer.  
(c) Guarantees, if any, given to third parties by the promoter offering its shares in the 
proposed offer for sale, stating reasons, amount, obligations on the issuer, period of 
guarantee, financial implications in case of default, security available, 
consideration etc.  
(d) Key terms. dates, parties to and general nature of any other subsisting material 
agreements including with strategic partners, joint venture partners and/or financial 
partners, entered into, other than in the ordinary course of business of the issuer.  
635[(da)    Details of agreements required to be disclosed under Clause 5A of paragraph A of 
part A of Schedule III of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.] 
 
 
634 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
635 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

287 
 
(e) All such shareholders' agreements and other agreements shall be included in the list 
of material contracts as required under 636[sub-item (1) of Item (18)].  
 
(F) Management:  
(a) Board of Directors:  
(i) Name, Director Identification Number,  date of birth,  age, qualifications, 
experience, address, occupation and date of expiration of the current term of 
office of manager, managing director, and other directors (including nominee 
directors and, whole -time directors), period of directorship, and their 
directorships in other companies.  
(ii) For each person, details of current and past directorship(s) in listed 
companies whose shares have been/were suspended from being traded on 
any of the stock exchanges, during his/her tenure, as follows: 
(a) Name of the Company: 
(b) Listed on (give names of the stock exchange(s)): 
(c) Date of suspension on the stock exchanges: 
(d) If trading suspended for more than three months, reasons for 
suspension and period of suspension. 
(e) If the suspension of trading revoked,  the date of revocation of 
suspension. 
(f) Term (along with relevant dates) of the  director in the above 
company(ies). 
(The above details shall be given for the preceding  five years. In case of 
fast track issues filed under the provisions of these regulations , the period 
of five years shall be reckoned on the date of filing of the offer document.)  
(iii) For each person, details of current and past directorship(s) in listed 
companies which have been/were delisted from the stock exchange(s), during 
his/her tenure, as follows: 
 Name of the Company: 
 Listed on [give name of the stock exchange(s)]: 
 Date of delisting on the stock exchange(s): 
 Compulsory or voluntary delisting: 
 
 
636 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “ sub-item (1) of Item (17)”. 

288 
 
 Reasons for delisting: 
 If relisted, date of relisting on [give name of the stock exchange(s)] 
 Term (along with relevant dates) of the director in the above 
company/companies. 
(iv) Nature of any family relationship between any of the directors or any of the 
directors and key managerial personnel 637[or senior management]. 
(v) Any arrangement or understanding with major shareholders, customers, 
suppliers or others, pursuant to which of the d irectors was selected as a 
director or member of senior management. 
(vi) Details of service contracts entered into by the directors with the issuer 
providing for benefits upon termination of employment and a distinct 
negative statement in the absence of any such contract.  
(vii) Details of borrowing powers.  
 
(b) Compensation of Managing Directors and/or Whole-time Directors:  
(i) The dates, parties to, and general nature of every contract appointing or 
fixing the remuneration of a Director, Whole -time Director, Managing 
Director or Manager entered into in the preceding two years.  During the last 
financial year, the amount of compensation paid, and benefits in kind granted 
on an individual basis to all such persons, by the issuer for services in all 
capacities to the issuer a nd remuneration paid or payable by subsidiary or 
associate company (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013). The 
disclosure shall also cover contingent or deferred compensation accrued for 
the year, even if the compensation is payable at a later date.  
(ii) If any portion of the compensation was paid pursuant to a bonus or profit -
sharing plan, a brief description of the plan and the basis upon which the 
directors participate in the plan. 
(iii) All such contracts shall be included in the list of material contracts re quired 
under 638[sub-item (1) of Item (18)]. 
(c) Shareholding of directors, including details of qualification shares held by them, if 
applicable.  
 
 
637 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
638 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words, numbers and symbols “sub-item (1) of Item (17)”. 

289 
 
(d) Interest of Directors:  
i) Nature and extent of interest, if any, of every director in the issuer, including in any 
property acquired or proposed to be acquired of the issuer or by  the issuer or in the 
promotion or formation of the issuer. 
ii) Where the interest of such a director consists in being a member of a firm or 
company, the nature and extent of the interest of the firm or company, with a 
statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to him or to the firm or company in 
cash or shares or otherwise by any person either to induce him to become, or to 
qualify him as, a director, or otherwise for services rendered by hi m or by the firm 
or company, in connection with the promotion or formation of the issuer shall be 
disclosed. 
(e) Change, if any, in the directors during the last three years, and reasons, thereof.  
(f) Management Organisation Structure.  
(g) Corporate Governance:  
(i) A statement that the issuer has complied with the requirements of corporate 
governance relating to the composition of its board of directors, 
constitution of committees such as audit committee, nomination and 
remuneration committee, stakeholders relationship committee, etc., as 
provided under Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
(ii) Details relating to the issuer's audit committee, nomination and 
remuneration committee, stakeholders’ relations hip committee and risk 
management committee (if applicable) including the names of committee 
members and the terms of reference under which the committees operate. 
(h) Key Managerial Personnel 639[and Senior Management]:  
(i) Details of the key managerial  personnel 640[and senior management]  
indicating name, date of joining, qualification, term of office with date of 
expiration of term and details of service contracts including 
termination/retirement benefits, if any, details of previous employment, etc.  
 
 
639 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
640 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Indi a (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 

290 
 
(ii) Past business  experience, and functions and areas of experience in the 
issuer. Nature of any family relationship between any of the key managerial 
personnel 641[and senior management]. 
(iii) Any arrangement or understanding with its major shareholders, customers, 
suppliers or others, pursuant to which any of the key managerial personnel  
642[or senior management], was selected as a key managerial personnel.  
(iv) During the last financial year, the amount of compensation paid, and 
benefits in kind granted, to the key managerial personn el 643[and senior 
management] on an individual basis, by the issuer for services in all 
capacities to the issuer, including contingent or deferred compensation 
accrued for the year, even if the compensation is payable at a later date.  
(v) If any portion of the compensation or otherwise was paid pursuant to a 
bonus or profit -sharing plan, a brief description of the plan and the basis 
upon which the key managerial  personnel 644[and senior management]  
participate in the plan. 
(vi) Status of each key managerial  personnel 645[and senior management] , as a 
permanent employee or otherwise. 
(vii) Shareholding of each key managerial personnel 646[and senior management] 
in the issuer.  
(viii) Changes in the Key Managerial  Personnel 647[or senior management]: Any 
change other than by way of retiremen t in the normal course in the key 
managerial personnel 648[or senior management]  in the preceding three 
years 
 
 
641 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
642 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
643 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
644 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
645 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
646 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
647 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
648 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 

291 
 
(ix) If the attrition  of 649[key managerial personnel and senior management] is 
high compared to the industry, reasons should be disclosed.  
(x) Employees: 
 Refer the page where disclosures regarding employees stock option 
scheme/ employees stock purchase scheme of the issuer, if any, as 
required by the Regulations or Regulations of the Board relating to 
Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase 
Scheme, is given. 
 Payment or Benefit to key managerial personnel  650[and senior 
management]  of the issuer (non-salary related):  Any amount or benefit 
paid or given within the two preceding years or intended to be paid or 
given to any officer and considerati on for payment of giving of the 
benefit. 
 
(G) Promoters/ principal shareholders: 
(a) Where the promoters are individuals: 
(i) A complete profile of all the promoters, including their name, date of birth, 
age, personal addresses, educational qualifications, experience in the business 
or employment, positions/posts held in the past, directorships held, other 
ventures of each promoter, special achievements, their business and financial 
activities, photograph 651[and Permanent Account Number]. 
(ii) A declaration confirming that the Permanent Account Number, Bank 
Account Number (s) and Passport Number  652[Aadhaar card number and 
driving license number ] of the promoters have been submitted to the stock 
exchanges on which the specified securities are proposed to be listed, at the 
time of filing the draft offer document 653[***] 
(b) Where the promoters are companies:  
 
 
649 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023 for the words “ key management personnel”. 
650 Inserted by th e Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 31.01.2023. 
651 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “, Permanent Account Number, Aadhaar 
card number and driving license number”. 
652 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 
653 The words “ or draft letter of offer ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.  

292 
 
(i) Brief history of the promoters such as date of incorporation, change in 
activities and present activities.  
(ii) History of the companies and the promoters of the companies. Where the 
promoters of such companies are again companies or bodies corporate, names 
of natural persons in control (i.e., holding fifteen per cent. or more voting 
rights) or who are on the board of directors of such bodies corporate.  
(iii) Details of change in control of  the promoter companies, if any, including 
details of the persons who held the controlling interest in the preceding three 
years. 
(iv) Declaration confirming that the Permanent Account Numbers, Bank Account 
Numbers, the Company Registration Numbers and the addr esses of the 
Registrars of Companies where the companies are registered have been 
submitted to the stock exchanges on which the specified securities are 
proposed to be listed, at the time of filing the draft offer document or draft 
letter of offer with them; 
 
(c) Where alternative investment funds  or foreign venture capital investors registered 
with the Board, are identified as promoters, the following shall be applicable, 
(i) Details of the Fund Manager;  
(ii) Generic details of the Fund, which is the investor in the issuer company; 
(iii) Details such as total number of investors in the Fund, distribution of investors 
category - wise (institutional, corporate, individual etc.) and percentage stake 
held by each investor category; 
(iv) Details of companies funded by the Funds, namely:- 
(a) Total number of companies funded; 
(b) Distribution of such companies  - country wise, holding period 
wise, sector wise;  
(c) Number of companies under the control of the Fund, directly or 
indirectly;  
(d) In respect of companies where such Funds have offered their shares 
for lock-in as part of minimum promoter’s contribution:-  
 Name of the company  
 Date of listing on each stock exchange 
 Fund’s shareholding in the company as on the date of listing 

293 
 
 Fund’s shareholding in the company as on the date of filing 
of the DRHP of the company that now seeks to get listed 
 
(v) Average holding period of the Fund’s investments; 
(vi) Sector focus/core specialization of the Fund, if applicable. 
 
(d) If the present promoters are not the original promoters and control of the issuer was 
acquired in the preceding five years, details regarding the acquisition of control, 
date of acquisition, terms of acquisition, consideration paid for acquisition and 
compliance with the provisions of 654[***] the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acq uisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, as 
applicable, and the Listing Agreement or the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
applicable. 
(e) If there is no identifiable prom oter, details of the shareholders who control 
individually or as a group, fifteen per cent. or more of the voting rights of the 
issuer and of persons, if any, who have the right to appoint director(s) on the board 
of directors of the issuer. 
(f) If the promoters do not have experience in the proposed line of business, that fact 
shall be disclosed explaining how the proposed activities would be carried 
out/managed. 
(g) If the promoters have any interest in the issuer other than as promoters, brief 
details of the interest.  
(h) Full particulars of the nature and extent of the interest, if any, of promoter (s), 
directors or group companies: 
(i) in the promotion of the  issuer;  
(ii) in any property acquired by the issuer in the preceding three years or 
proposed to be acquired by it. 
(iii) where the interest of such a director or promoter consists in being a member 
of a firm or company, the nature and extent of the interest of the firm or 
company, with a statement of all sums paid or agreed to be paid to such 
director or to the firm or comp any in cash or shares or otherwise by any 
 
 
654 The words, numbers and symbols “the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 or ” omitted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2 022. 

294 
 
person either to induce such person  to become, or to qualify such person  as a 
director, or otherwise for services rendered by such person  or by the firm or 
company, in connection with the promotion or formation of the issuer. 
(iv) in any transaction in acquisition of land, construction of building and supply 
of machinery, etc. with full details of the transaction and the amount involved 
 
(i) Payment or benefit to the Promoter of the Issuer: Any amount or benefit paid or 
given in the preceding two years or intended to be paid or given to any promoter or 
promoter group and consideration for payment of giving of the benefit. 
(j) Brief details of material guarantees, if any, given to third parties by the promoters 
with respect to specified securities of the issuer.  
(k) A list of all individuals and entities forming part of the promoter group of the 
issuer.  
(l) If the promoters have disassociated themselves from any of the companies or firms 
during the preceding three years, the reasons ther eof and the circumstances leading 
to the disassociation together with the terms of such disassociation. 
 
(H) Dividend policy: Dividend policy and mode of payment of dividend, details of dividend 
paid in the last three financial years and the stub period, as ap plicable, and the period 
between last audited period and the date of the filing the draft offer document / draft letter 
of offer/ offer document. 
 
(11) Financial Statements:  
 
(I) Requirements in case Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) is applicable in the la test 
period presented in Restated Financial Information 
Financial information section of the offer document will be divided into two parts, viz., restated 
financial information and other financial information. The restated and other financial information 
should be complete in all respects.  To avoid duplication of disclosures in the offer document, 
appropriate use of cross reference may be made to the restated and other financial information. 
 
(A) Restated Financial information 
(i) Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS) prepared in accordance with Ind AS for three 
years and the stub period (if applicable) should be audited and certified by the 

295 
 
655[statutory auditor(s) or Chartered Accountants ] who holds a valid certificate issued 
by the Peer Review Board of the Insti tute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). 
The stub period CFS shall be required, if Ind AS CFS for latest full financial year 
included in the offer document is older than six months from the date of filing of the 
draft offer document/ offer document. T he stub period should not end up to a date 
earlier than six months of the date of filing of the draft offer document/offer document. 
In accordance with Ind AS 34 Interim Financial Reporting, the group should present a 
complete Ind AS CFS for the stub perio d, except the issuer has been exempted from 
presenting comparatives for the stub period.  CFS shall be prepared as per Companies 
Act, 2013 (as amended). 
(a) The CFS (including for the stub period if applicable) should be restated to ensure 
consistency of prese ntation, disclosures and the accounting policies for all the 
periods presented in line with that of the latest financial year/ stub period 
presented. Similarly, significant errors , non-provisions, regrouping, other 
adjustments, if any, should be reflected in the corresponding period.  The changes 
in accounting policies and the correction of errors, should be disclosed in 
accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors .  Changes in estimates, if an y, need not to be 
restated, as they are events of that corresponding year. The issuer has an option to 
present comparatives for the stub period. 
(b) SA 705 Modification to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report requires a 
qualified opinion, adverse op inion or disclaimer of opinion for material 
misstatements. With respect to an eligible issuer, audit modifications, which are 
quantifiable or can be estimated shall be adjusted in the restated financial 
information in the appropriate period. In situations where the qualification cannot 
be quantified or estimated, appropriate disclosures should be made in the notes to 
account, explaining why the qualification cannot be quantified or estimated. 
(c) A reconciliation explaining the differences between the audited C FS equity and 
profit (loss) and the restated CFS should be presented in a columnar format. 
 
 
655 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbols “statutory auditor(s)”. 

296 
 
(d) The 656[auditor or Chartered Accountants] shall issue an examination report on the 
restated and audited financial information in accordance with the Guidance Note 
issued by the ICAI from time to time. 
(e) Auditor should have a valid peer review certificate issued by the Peer Review 
Board of the ICAI as on the date of signing the restated financial information.  If a 
new auditor holding a valid peer review certificate is app ointed for the stub period, 
and the predecessor auditor did not hold a valid peer review certificate at the date 
of signing the last annual financial statement, then the last annual financial 
statement would need to be re -audited by the new auditor  in acco rdance with 
applicable standards. The re -audit may exclude audit reporting matters on CARO, 
internal financial control and other pure regulatory matters.  Where auditor earlier 
held a valid peer review certificate, but did not hold a valid certificate at the date of 
signing the restated financial information, the earlier certificate shall be considered 
valid provided there is no express refusal by the peer review board to renew the 
certificate and the process to renew the peer review certificate was initiat ed by the 
auditor. 
(f) Where an issuer does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, in any 
financial year, the issuer shall present separate financial statements for that 
financial year by following the applicable requirements of a restated CFS. 
(g) List of the related parties and a ll related party transactions of the consolidated 
entities (whether eliminated on consolidation or not), which require disclosure 
under Ind AS 24 and/ or covered under section 188(2) of the Companies Act, 2013 
(as amended), as  disclosed in the separate financial statement of the consolidated 
entities, should be disclosed in the restated financial information.  
 All funding arrangements including inter -se guarantees among the entities 
consolidated; except contribution to equity s hare capital, shall be disclosed. 
The important terms and conditions of the funding arrangement and fund 
transfer restrictions, if any, should be disclosed in the restated financial 
information.  
(h) In case where Ind AS is not applicable to the Company for an y of  the years the 
principles laid down in Circular No SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL/CIR/P/2016/47 of March 
 
 
656 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “auditor”. 

297 
 
31, 2016 or any other relevant circular  issued by the Board from time to time, shall 
apply. 
 
(ii) The separate audited financial statements for past three full finan cial years 
immediately preceding the date of filing of offer document of the issuer company and 
all its material subsidiaries should be made available on issuer’s website in accordance 
with the materiality thresholds in (b) below. Alternatively, relevant l ink should be 
provided to the financial statement of subsidiaries on the Issuer’s website. The link to 
the issuer’s separate financial statement should be specified in the offer document. For 
this purpose, subsidiaries shall be identified based on definiti ons in the Companies 
Act, 2013 . The above requirements shall apply for the periods of existence of the 
parent-subsidiary relationship. 
(a) a certified English translated copy of the financial statements should be made 
available on the Company’s website for eve ry entity consolidated whose financial 
statements are not presented in English. 
(b) The financial statements reported in any currency other than Indian Rupee shall be 
translated into Indian Rupee in accordance with Ind AS 21. The Effects of Changes 
in Foreign Exchange Rates. The financial statements of all foreign consolidated 
entities should be audited, unless they are not material to the CFS and the local 
regulation does not mandate audit. For this purpose, a consolidated entity shall be 
considered ‘material’ if it contributes 10% or more to the turnover or net -worth or 
profits before tax in the annual CFS of the respective year. Additionally,  total 
unaudited information included in the in the CFS shall not exceed 20% of the 
turnover or net -worth or profits b efore tax of the CFS of the respective year. For 
the purpose of this clause, definition of turnover, net -worth and profits before tax 
should be as per Companies Act, 2013 (as amended).  
(c) The financial statements of foreign entities consolidated may be audit ed as per the 
requirements of local regulation applicable in the respective jurisdiction. However, 
in cases where the local regulation does not mandate audit, financial statements 
should be audited as per the auditing standards/ requirements applicable in India. 
(d) The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries may be acceptable in a GAAP 
other than Ind AS, if local laws require application of local GAAP.  
 
 
 

298 
 
(B) Other Financial Information 
(i) The following information shall be computed as per the Guidance Note issued by the 
ICAI from time to time and disclosed in other financial information 
 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) 
 Return on net worth 
 Net Asset Value per share 
 EBITDA 
(ii) If the proceeds, fully or partly, directly or indirectly, is to be used for acquisiti on of 
one or more material businesses or entities, the audited statements of balance sheets, 
profit and loss, cash flow for the latest three financial years and stub period (if 
available) prepared as per framework applicable to the business or subsidiary p roposed 
to be acquired shall be included in the draft offer document/ offer document. For this 
purpose, the proposed acquisition (covering all businesses or subsidiaries proposed to 
be acquired) shall be considered material if it will make 20% or more contr ibution in 
aggregate to either turnover, or net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS. 
The issuer may voluntarily choose to provide financial statements of above 
acquisitions out of the proceeds of the issue even if they are below the above 
materiality threshold. 657[The issuer company may also voluntarily provide proforma 
financial statements to disclose the impact of such acquisition, for such financial 
periods as determined by the issuer company, provided such proforma financial 
statements are prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on assurance 
engagement or guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI) from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor or the chartered 
accountants, who hold  a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the 
ICAI).] In cases where the general purpose financial statement of the 
businesses/entities to be acquired/divested are not available, combined/carved -out 
financial statements for that business/enti ty shall be prepared in accordance with 
658[any guidance note, standard on assurance engagement or guidelines ] issued by the 
ICAI from time to time.  The combined/carved -out financials statements shall be 
audited by the auditor of the seller in accordance with applicable framework. 
 
 
657 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
658 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “Guidance Note”. 

299 
 
659[(iii) Proforma financial statements  – The Issuer shall provide Proforma financial 
statements, as certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a 
valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Boar d of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (ICAI), of all the subsidiaries or businesses material to the 
consolidated financial statements (individually or collectively) where the issuer or its 
subsidiaries have made an acquisition or divestment including deemed disposal after 
the latest period for which financial information is disclosed in the offer document but 
before the date of filing of the offer document. For this purpose, the 
acquisition/divestment would be considered as material if acquir ed/ divested business 
or subsidiary in aggregate contributes 20% or more to turnover, net worth or profit 
before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. The Proforma financial statements 
shall be prepared for at least the last completed financial year and the stub period (if 
any). The Proforma financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with any 
guidance note, standard on assurance engagement or guideline issued by the ICAI 
from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor or chartered a ccountants, who 
hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI. The issuer 
Company may voluntarily choose to provide proforma financial statements of 
acquisitions or divestments (i) even when they are below the above materiality 
threshold, or (ii) if the acquisitions or divestments have been completed prior to the 
latest period(s) for which financial information is disclosed in the draft offer document 
or the offer document. Furthermore, the Proforma financial statements may be 
 
 
659 Substituted by the Securities and Exchan ge Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (iii) read as under,- 
 
“Proforma financial statements – The Issuer shall provide Proforma financial statem ents, as certified by the 
statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of 
the Institute of Charte red Accountants of India (ICAI) , of all the subsidiaries or businesses material to the 
consolidated financial statements where the issuer or its subsidiaries have made an acquisition or divestment 
including deemed disposal after the latest period for which financial information is disclosed in the offer 
document but before the date of filing of the offe r document. For this purpose, the acquisition/divestment 
would be considered as material if acquired/ divested business or subsidiary in aggregate contributes 20% or 
more to turnover, net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. T he Proforma financial 
statements shall be prepared for the last completed financial year and the stub period (if any). The Proforma 
financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by the ICAI from time to 
time and certified b y the statutory auditor. The issuer Company may voluntarily choose to provide proforma 
financial statements of acquisitions even when they are below the above materiality threshold. In case of one 
or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Pr oforma financial statements should be presented. 
Where the businesses acquired/ divested does not represent a separate entity, general purpose financial 
statement may not be available for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved -out financial stateme nts 
for such businesses shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by the ICAI from time to 
time.. Further, in case of non -material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation to the fact of the 
acquisition/divestment, consideration paid/received and mode of financ ing shall be certified by the  statutory 
auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer 
Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) appointed b y the issuer company.” 

300 
 
disclosed for such financial periods as determined by the issuer company. The issuer 
may also voluntarily include financial statements of the business or subsidiary 
acquired or divested, provided that such financial statements are certified by the 
auditor (of the  business or subsidiary acquired or divested) or chartered accountants, 
who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI. In case of 
one or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Proforma financial 
statements should b e presented. Where the businesses acquired/ divested does not 
represent a separate entity, general purpose financial statement may not be available 
for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved -out financial statements for such 
businesses shall be pre pared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on 
assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the ICAI from time to time. Further, in 
case of non -material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation to the fact of the 
acquisition/divestment, co nsideration paid/received and mode of financing shall be 
certified by the statutory auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who 
hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI appointed by the 
issuer company.]  
 
 
(C) Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations as 
reflected in the restated Ind AS CFS shall be provided in other financial information.  
 
(i) Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year or when applicable 
subsequent to the stub period:  A statement by the directors whether in their opinion 
there have arisen any circumstances since the date of the last f inancial statements as 
disclosed in the offer document and which materially and adversely affect or is likely 
to affect within the next twelve months: 
a. the trading or profitability of the issuer; or  
b. the value of its assets; or  
c. its ability to pay its liabilities.  
(ii) Factors that may affect the results of operations.  
(iii) Discussion on the results of operations: This information shall inter -alia contain the 
following:  
a. A summary of the past financial results after adjustments as given in the 
restated financial sta tements for the past three full financial years and the 

301 
 
stub period (if any) containing significant items of income and expenditure 
shall be given.  
b. A summary of major items of income and expenditure for the last three 
years and most recent audit period.  
c. The income and sales on account of major product/ main activities.  
d. In case, the other income constitutes more than 10% of the total income, the 
break-up of the same along with the nature of the income, i.e., recurring or 
non-recurring shall be stated.  
e. If a material part of the income is dependent upon a single customer/supplier 
or a few major customers/suppliers, disclosure of this fact along with 
relevant data. Similarly if any foreign customer/supplier constitutes a 
significant portion of the issuer’s b usiness, disclosure of the fact along with 
its impact on the business on account of exchange rate fluctuations.  
f. In case the issuer has deviated from applicable accounting standards for 
recording sales and revenues, its impact may be analysed and disclosed.  
g. The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the 
interim period and the preceding years  
(iv) Comparison of last three years and the stub period on the major heads of the profit and 
loss statement, including an analysis of reasons for  the changes in significant items of 
income and expenditure shall also be given, inter-alia, containing the following:  
a. unusual or infrequent events or transactions including unusual trends on 
account of business activity, unusual items of income, change o f accounting 
policies and discretionary reduction of expenses etc.  
b. significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect 
income from continuing operations;  
c. known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a material 
adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing operations;  
d. expected future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case 
of events such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that will 
cause a material change are known;  
e. the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to 
increased sales volume, introduction of new products or services or increased 
sales prices;  
f. total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuer operated;  

302 
 
g. status of any publicly announced new products or business segment , if 
applicable;  
h. the extent to which business is seasonal;  
i. any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers;  
j. competitive conditions.  
(v) ‘Management’s Discussion and An alysis shall be based on the restated financial 
information for the last three years and the stub period.  
 
(D) Capitalisation statement  
(i) Capitalisation Statement showing total borrowings, total equity, and the borrowing/ 
equity ratios before and after the iss ue is made shall be incorporated. It shall be 
prepared on the basis of the restated CFS for the latest financial year or when 
applicable at the end of the stub period. 
(ii) In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the financial 
information has been disclosed in the offer document, a note explaining the nature of 
the change shall be given.  
(iii) An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder  
 
Particulars Pre-issue at As adjusted for the 
proposed issue 
                                                                                                                        (` in 
crores) 
Total borrowings   
Current borrowings*   
Non-current 
borrowings (including 
current maturity)* 
  
   
Total equity   
Equity share capital*   
Other equity*   
Total Capital   
Ratio: Non-current 
borrowings/ Total equity  
  

303 
 
*These terms shall carry the meaning as per Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013 
(as amended). 
 
(II) Requirements in case Indian GAAP is applicable in th e latest period presented in 
Restated Financial Information 
Financial information section of the offer document shall be divided into two parts, viz., restated 
financial information and other financial information. The restated and other financial information 
should be complete in all respects. To avoid duplication of disclosures in the offer document, 
appropriate use of cross reference may be made to the restated and other financial information. 
 
(A) Restated Financial information 
(i) Consolidated Financial Statem ents (CFS) prepared in accordance with Indian GAAP 
for three years and stub period (if applicable) should be audited and certified by the 
660[statutory auditor(s) or Chartered Accountants ] who holds a valid certificate issued 
by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). 
The stub period CFS shall be required, if Indian GAAP CFS for latest full financial 
year included in the draft offer document/offer document is older than six months old 
from the date of filing of the draft offer document/ offer document. The stub period 
should not end up to a date earlier than six months of the date of filing of the offer 
document. In accordance with AS 25 Interim Financial Reporting , the group should 
present a complete Indian GAAP CFS for  the stub period, except the issuer has been 
exempted from presenting comparatives for the stub period.  CFS shall be prepared as 
per the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 (as amended). 
(a) The CFS (including for the stub period if applicable) should be restated to ensure 
consistency of presentation, disclosures and the accounting policies for all the 
periods presented in line with that of the latest financial year/stub period presented.  
Similarly, significant errors, non-provisions, regrouping, other adjustme nts, if any, 
should be reflected in the corresponding period.  Changes in estimates, if any, need 
not to be restated, as they are events of that corresponding year. The issuer has an 
option to present comparatives for the stub period.  Appropriate disclosu res for 
correction of errors, changes in accounting policies and changes in accounting 
 
 
660 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclos ure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “statutory auditor(s)”. 

304 
 
estimates should be made in accordance with AS 5 Net Profit or Loss for the 
Period, Prior Period Items and Changes in Accounting Policies. 
(b) SA 705 Modification to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report requires a 
qualified opinion, adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion for material 
misstatements. With respect to an eligible issuer, audit modifications, which are 
quantifiable or can be estimated shall be adjuste d in the restated financial 
information in the appropriate period. In situations where the qualification cannot 
be quantified or estimated, appropriate disclosures should be made, in the notes to 
account, explaining why the qualification cannot be quantified or estimated. 
(c) A reconciliation explaining the difference between the audited CFS  equity and 
profit (loss) and the restated CFS equity and profit (loss) should be presented in a 
columnar format. 
(d) The 661[auditor or Chartered Accountants] shall issue an examination report on the 
restated and audited financial information in accordance with the Guidance Note 
issued by the ICAI from time to time. 
(e) Auditor should have a valid peer review certificate issued by the Peer Review 
Board of the Institute of Chartered Acc ountants of India (ICAI) as on the date of 
signing the restated financial information.  If a new auditor holding a valid peer 
review certificate is appointed for the stub period, and the predecessor auditor did 
not hold a valid peer review certificate at t he date of signing the last annual 
financial statement, then the last annual financial statement would need to be re -
audited by the new auditor  in accordance with applicable standards .  The re -audit 
may exclude audit reporting matters on CARO, Internal fin ancial control and other 
pure regulatory matters.  Where auditor earlier held a valid peer review certificate, 
but did not hold a valid certificate at the date of signing the restated financial 
information, the earlier certificate shall be considered valid  provided there is no 
express refusal by the peer review board to renew the certificate and the process to 
renew the peer review certificate was initiated by the auditor. 
(f) Where an issuer does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venture in any 
financial year, the issuer shall present separate financial statements for that 
financial year by following the applicable requirements of a restated CFS. 
 
 
661 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “auditor”. 

305 
 
(g) List of the related parties and a ll related party transactions of the consolidated 
entities (whether elimina ted on consolidation or not), which require disclosure 
under AS 18 and/ or covered under section 188(2) of the Companies Act, 2013 (as 
amended), as disclosed in the separate financial statement of the consolidated 
entities, should be disclosed in the restated financial information.  
 All funding arrangements including inter -se guarantees among the entities 
consolidated; except contribution to equity share capital, shall be disclosed. 
The important terms and conditions of the funding arrangement and fund 
transfer restrictions, if any, should be disclosed in the restated financial 
information.  
(h) The following disclosures shall be made in the restated financial information on the 
basis of amounts recognized and measured as per Indian GAAP and in accordance 
with the Guidance Note of the ICAI issued from time to time: 
i. Disclosures as per AS 13 
ii. Disclosures as per AS 14 
 
(ii) The separate audited financial statements for past three full financial years 
immediately preceding the date of filing of offer document of the issuer  company and 
all its material subsidiaries should be made available on issuer’s website in accordance 
with the materiality thresholds in (b) below. Alternatively, relevant link should be 
provided to the financial statement of subsidiaries on the Issuer’s w ebsite. The link to 
the issuer’s separate financial statement should be specified in the offer document. For 
this purpose, subsidiaries shall be identified based on definitions in the Companies 
Act, 2013 . The above requirements shall apply for the periods of existence of the 
parent-subsidiary relationship. 
(a) a certified English translated copy of the financial statements should be made 
available on the Company’s website for every entity consolidated whose financial 
statements are not presented in English. 
(b) The financial statements reported in any currency other than Indian Rupee shall be 
translated into Indian Rupee in accordance with Ind AS 21 The Effects of Changes 
in Foreign Exchange Rates. The financial statements of all foreign consolidated 
entities should  be audited, unless they are not material to the CFS and the local 
regulation does not mandate audit. For this purpose, a consolidated entity shall be 
considered ‘material’ if it contributes 10% or more to the turnover or net -worth or 
profits before tax in  the annual CFS of the respective year.  Additionally, total 

306 
 
unaudited CFS shall not exceed 20% of the turnover or net -worth or profits before 
tax of the CFS of the respective year. For the purpose of this clause, definition of 
turnover, net-worth and prof its before tax should be as per Companies Act, 2013 
(as amended).  
(c) The financial statements of foreign entities consolidated may be audited as per the 
requirements of local regulation applicable in the respective jurisdiction. However, 
in cases where the l ocal regulation does not mandate audit, financial statements 
should be audited as per the auditing standards/ requirements applicable in India. 
(d) The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries may be acceptable in a GAAP 
other than Indian GAAP, if local laws require application of local GAAP.  
 
(B) Other Financial Information 
(i) The following information shall be computed as per the Guidance Note issued by the 
ICAI from time to time and disclosed in other financial information 
 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) 
 Return on net worth 
 Net Asset Value per share 
 EBITDA 
(ii) If the proceeds, fully or partly, directly or indirectly, is to be used for acquisition of 
one or more material businesses or entities, the audited statements of balance sheets, 
profit and loss, cash f low for the latest three financial years and stub period (if 
available) prepared as per framework applicable to the business or subsidiary proposed 
to be acquired shall be included in the draft offer document/ offer document. For this 
purpose, the proposed acquisition (covering all businesses or subsidiaries proposed to 
be acquired) shall be considered material if it will make 20% or more contribution in 
aggregate to either turnover, or net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS.  
The issuer Com pany may voluntarily choose to provide financial statements of above 
acquisitions out of the proceeds of the issue even if they are below the above 
materiality threshold. 662[The issuer company may also voluntarily provide proforma 
financial statements to di sclose the impact of such acquisition, for such financial 
periods as determined by the issuer company, provided such proforma financial 
statements are prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on assurance 
 
 
662 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 

307 
 
engagement or guidelines issued by t he Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(ICAI) from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor or the chartered 
accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the 
ICAI.] In cases where the general purpose financial statement of the businesses/entities 
to be acquired/ divested are not available , combined/ carved -out financial statements 
for that business/entity shall be prepared in accordance with 663[any guidance note, 
standard on assurance engagement or guidelines] issued by the ICAI from time to time. 
The combined/carved-out financials statements shall be audited by the auditor of the 
seller in accordance with applicable framework. 
664[(iii)Proforma   financial   statements  –The   Issuer   shall   pro vide   Proforma   financial 
statements, as certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a  
valid  certificate  issued  by  the  Peer  Review  Board  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountants  of  India  (ICAI), of  all  the  subsidiaries  or  businesses  material  to  the 
consolidated  financial  statements (individually or collectively) where  the  issuer  or  
its  subsidiaries  have  made  an acquisition  or  divestment  including  deemed  
disposal  after  the  latest  period  for  which financial information is disclosed in the 
offer document but before the date of filing of the  offer  document.  For this purpose, 
the acquisition/divestment  would  be  considered as material if acquired/ divested 
business or subsidiary in agg regate contributes 20% or more to turnover, net worth or 
 
 
663 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025 for the words “Guidance Note”. 
664 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (iii) read as under,- 
 
“(iii) Proforma financial statements – The Issuer shall provide Proforma financial statements, as certified by 
the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate i ssued by the Peer Review Board 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), of all the subsidiaries or businesses material to the 
consolidated financial statements where the issuer or its subsidiaries have made an acquisition or divestment 
including deemed disposal after the latest period for which financial information is disclosed in the offer 
document but before the date of filing of the offer document. For this purpose, the acquisition/divestment 
would be considered as material if acquired / divested business or subsidiary in aggregate contributes 20% or 
more to turnover, net worth or profit before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. The Proforma financial 
statements shall be prepared for the period covering last completed financial year and the stub period (if 
any). The Proforma financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by the 
ICAI from time to time and certified by the statutory auditor. The issuer Company may voluntarily choose to 
provide profor ma financial statements of acquisitions even when they are below the above materiality 
threshold. In case of one or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Proforma financial 
statements should be presented. Where the businesses acquired/ dive sted does not represent a separate entity, 
general purpose financial statement may not be available for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved -
out financial statements for such businesses shall be prepared in accordance with Guidance Note issued by  
the ICAI from time to time. Further, in case of non -material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation 
to the fact of the acquisition/divestment, consideration paid/received and mode of financ ing shall be certified 
by the  statutory auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued 
by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) appointed by the issuer 
company.” 

308 
 
profit before tax in the latest annual CFS of the issuer. The  Proforma  financial  
statements  shall  be  prepared  for  at least the  period  covering  last completed   
financial   year   and   the   stub   period   (if   any).   The Proforma financial statements 
shall be prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on assurance 
engagement or guidelines issued by the ICAI from time to time and certified by the 
statutory auditor or charter ed accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the 
Peer Review Board of the ICAI. The issuer Company may voluntarily choose to 
provide proforma financial statements of acquisitions or divestments (i) even when 
they are below the above materiality threshold, or (ii) if the acquisitions or divestments 
have been completed prior to the latest period(s) for which financial information is 
disclosed in the draft offer document or the offer document. Furthermore, the Proforma 
financial statements may be dis closed for such financial periods as determined by the 
issuer company. The issuer may also voluntarily include financial statements of the 
business or subsidiary acquired or divested, provided that such financial statements are 
certified by the auditor (of the business or subsidiary acquired or divested) or chartered 
accountants, who hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI. 
In case of one or more acquisitions or divestments, one combined set of Proforma 
financial statements should be presented. Where the businesses acquired/ divested does 
not represent a separate entity, general purpose financial statement may not be 
available for such business. In such cases, combined/ carved -out financial statements 
for such businesses shall be  prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard 
on assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the ICAI from time to time. Further, 
in case of non -material acquisitions/divestments disclosures in relation to the fact of 
the acquisition/divestment, consideration paid/received and mode of financing shall be 
certified by the statutory auditor of the issuer company or chartered accountants, who 
hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the ICAI appointed by the 
issuer company.] 
 
(C) Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations as 
reflected in the restated Indian GAAP CFS shall  be provided in other financial 
information.  
(i) Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year or when applicable 
subsequent to the stub period: A statement by the directors whether in their opinion 
there have arisen any circumstances since the date of the last financial statements as 

309 
 
disclosed in the offer document and which materially and adversely affect or is likely 
to affect within the next twelve months : 
a. the trading or profitability of the issuer; or  
b. the value of its assets; or  
c. its ability to pay its liabilities.  
(ii) Factors that may affect the results of operations.  
(iii) Discussion on the results of operations: This information shall, inter-alia, contain the 
following:  
a. A summary of the past financial results after adjustments as given in th e 
auditor’s report for the past three full financial years and the stub period (if 
any) containing significant items of income and expenditure shall be given.  
b. A summary of major items of income and expenditure for the last three years 
and most recent audit period  
c. The income and sales on account of major product/ main activities.  
d. In case the other income constitutes more than 10% of the total income, the 
break-up of the same along with the nature of the income, i.e., recurring or 
non-recurring shall be stated.  
e. If a material part of the income is dependent upon a single customer/supplier 
or a few major customers/suppliers, disclosure of this fact along with relevant 
data. Similarly if any foreign customer/supplier constitutes a significant 
portion of the issuer’s business, disclosure of the fact along with its impact on 
the business on account of exchange rate fluctuations.  
f. In case the issuer has deviated from statutorily prescribed manner for 
recording sales and revenues, its impact may be analysed and disclosed.  
g. The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the 
interim period and the preceding years, if applicable.  
(iv) Comparison of last three years and the stub period on the major heads of the profit 
and loss statement, including an analysis of reasons for the changes in significant 
items of income and expenditure shall also be given, inter -alia, containing the 
following:  
a. unusual or infrequent events or transactions including unusual trends on 
account of business activity, unusual it ems of income, change of accounting 
policies and discretionary reduction of expenses etc.  
b. significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect 
income from continuing operations;  

310 
 
c. known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a material 
adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing operations;  
d. expected future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case 
of events such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that wil l 
cause a material change are known;  
e. the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to 
increased sales volume, introduction of new products or services or increased 
sales prices;  
f. total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuer operated;  
g. status of any publicly announced new products or business segment;  
h. the extent to which business is seasonal;  
i. any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers;  
j. competitive conditions.  
(v) Management’s Discussion  and Analysis shall be based on the restated financial 
information for the last three years and the stub period.  
 
(D) Capitalisation statement  
(i) Capitalisation Statement showing total borrowings, total equity, and the borrowing/ 
equity ratios before and after the issue is made shall be incorporated. It shall be 
prepared on the basis of the restated CFS for the latest financial year or when 
applicable at the end of the stub period. 
(ii) In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the financi al 
information has been disclosed in the offer document, a note explaining the nature of 
the change shall be given.  
(iii) An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder  
 
Particulars Pre-issue at As adjusted for the 
proposed issue 
                                                                                                                        (` in 
Crores) 
Total borrowings   
Short term borrowings*   
Long term borrowings 
(including current 
  

311 
 
maturity)* 
   
Total equity   
Share capital*   
Reserves and surplus*   
Money received against 
share warrants* 
  
Total Capital   
Ratio: Long term 
borrowings/ Total equity  
 
  
*These terms shall carry the meaning as per Schedule III of the Companies Act, 
2013 (as amended). 
 
(III) Financial Information of the Issuer in further public offers:  
(i) An issuer making a further public offer may disclose the financial information 
specified in clause (ii) of this sub-item, in lieu of information specified under sub -item 
(B) if: 
a. the issuer is making a further public offer through the fast track route in accordance 
with applicable provisions of these regulations; 
b. the specified securities offered in further public offer are of the same class of those 
already listed on a stock exchange; 
c. financial reports of the issuer are available on the website of any stock exchange or 
on a common e-filing platform specified by the Board; 
d. there has not been any change in management of the issuer; 
e. specified securities of issuer have not been listed pursuant to relax ation granted 
from clause (b) of sub -rule (2) of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Rules, 1957. 
(ii) The issuer satisfying the conditions specified in clause ( i) may disclose consolidated 
financial statements as disclosed under Companies Act, 2013. 
(iii) A report by the auditors of the issuer on a limited review of the profit or loss and assets 
and liabilities (indicating changes in accounting policies, if any), as at a date not earlier 
than six months prior to the date of the opening of the issue, where au dited accounts as 
at such date are not available. For this purpose, it shall be sufficient if: 

312 
 
a. In the statement of the assets and liabilities, the main heads of assets and liabilities 
as provided in Part I of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013  have be en 
provided. If an issuer is governed by a statute other than the Companies Act, 2013, 
the main heads of assets and liabilities as specified in such statute shall be provided 
in the statement of assets and liabilities.  
b. In the statement of profit or loss, the information required to be disclosed under the 
heads of income and expenditure as per Regulatio n 33 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015  in respect of quarterly financial inf ormation to be filed with the 
stock exchanges, has been provided. 
(iv) Material changes and commitments, if any, affecting financial position of the issuer. 
(v) Week-end prices for the last four weeks; current market price; and highest and lowest 
prices of equity shares during the period with the relative dates.  If the equity shares of 
the issuer are listed on more than one stock exchange, the above information shall be 
provided for each stock exchange separately. 
(vi) Stock market quotation of shares/ convertible instru ments of the company (high/ low 
price in each of the last three years and monthly high/low price during the last six 
months). If the equity shares of the issuer are listed on more than one stock exchange, 
the above information shall be provided for each stock exchange separately.  
(vii) Accounting and other ratios: The following accounting ratios for each of the 
accounting periods for which financial information is given: 
 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) 
 Return on net worth 
 Net Asset Value per share 
 EBITDA 
(viii) Capitalisation Statement: 
a. A Capitalisation Statement showing total debt, net worth, and the debt/ equity 
ratios before and after the issue is made. 
b. In case of any change in the share capital since the date as of which the financial 
information has been dis closed in the prospectus, a note explaining the nature of 
the change. 
c. An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement is specified hereunder:  
 
Particulars Pre-issue at  As adjusted for the 

313 
 
proposed issue 
                                                                                                                       (` in 
Crores) 
Total borrowings   
Current borrowings*   
Non-current 
borrowings (including 
current maturity)* 
  
   
Total equity   
Share capital*   
Reserves and surplus*   
Money received against 
share warrants* 
  
Total Capital   
Ratio: Non-current 
borrowings/ Total equity  
 
  
*These terms shall carry the meaning as per Schedule III of the Companies Act, 
2013 (as amended). 
 
(ix) Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Po sition and Results of 
Operations as reflected in the restated Indian GAAP CFS shall be provided in other 
financial information.  
(x) Overview of the business of the issuer.  
(xi) Significant developments subsequent to the last financial year or when applicable 
subsequent to the stub period: A statement by the directors whether in their opinion 
there have arisen any circumstances since the date of the last financial statements as 
disclosed in the offer document and which materially and adversely affect or is likely 
to affect within the next twelve months : 
a. the trading or profitability of the issuer; or  
b. the value of its assets; or  
c. its ability to pay its liabilities.  
(xii) Factors that may affect the results of operations.  

314 
 
(xiii) Discussion on the results of operations: This inf ormation shall, inter -alia, contain the 
following:  
a. A summary of the past financial results after adjustments as given in the 
auditor’s report for the past three full financial years and the stub period (if 
any) containing significant items of income and expenditure shall be given.  
b. A summary of major items of income and expenditure for the last three 
years and most recent audit period  
c. The income and sales on account of major product/ main activities.  
d. In case the other income constitutes more than 10% of the total income, the 
break-up of the same along with the nature of the income, i.e., recurring or 
non-recurring shall be stated.  
e. If a material part of the income is dependent upon a single customer/supplier 
or a few major customers/suppliers, disclosure of this fact along with 
relevant data. Similarly if any foreign customer/supplier constitutes a 
significant portion of the issuer’s business, disclosure of the fact along with 
its impact on the business on account of exchange rate fluctuations.  
f. In case the issuer has deviated from statutorily prescribed manner for 
recording sales and revenues, its impact may be analysed and disclosed.  
g. The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the 
interim period and the preceding years, if applicable.  
(xiv) Comparison of last three years and the stub period on the major heads of the profit and 
loss statement, including an analysis of reasons for the changes in significant items of 
income and expenditure shall also be given, inter-alia, containing the following:  
a. unusual or infrequent events or transactions including unusual trends on 
account of business activity, unusual items of income, change of accounting 
policies and discretionary reduction of expenses etc.  
b. significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to affect 
income from continuing operations;  
c. known trends or uncertainties that have had or are expected to have a 
material adverse impact on sales, revenue or income from continuing 
operations;  
d. expected future changes in relationship between costs and revenues, in case 
of events such as future increase in labour or material costs or prices that 
will cause a material change are known;  

315 
 
e. the extent to which material increases in net sales or revenue are due to 
increased sales volume, introduction of new products or services or 
increased sales prices;  
f. total turnover of each major industry segment in which the issuer operated;  
g. status of any publicly announced new products or business segment;  
h. the extent to which business is seasonal;  
i. any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers;  
j. competitive conditions.  
                                                                                 
(12) Legal and Other Information: 
(A) Outstanding Litigations and Material Developments:  
(1)  Pending Litigations involving the issuer/ its directors/ promoters/ subsidiaries: 
(i) All criminal proceedings;  
(ii) All actions by regulatory authorities and statutory authorities;  
(iii) Disciplinary action including penalty imposed by SEBI or stock exchan ges 
against the promoters in the last five financial yea rs including outstanding 
action; 
(iv) Claims related to direct and indirect taxes, in a consolidated manner, giving 
the number of cases and total amount;  
665[(v)  Other pending litigations based on lower of  threshold criteria mentioned 
below– 
 
(i) As per the policy of materiality defined by the board of directors of the 
issuer and disclosed in the offer document; or  
(ii) Litigation where the value or expected impact in terms of value, exceeds 
the lower of the following: 
(a) two percent of turnover, as per the latest annual restated 
consolidated financial statements of the issuer; or 
(b) two percent of net worth, as per the latest annual restated 
consolidated financial statements of the issuer, except in case  the 
arithmetic value of the net worth is negative; or 
 
 
665 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-item (v) read as under:  
 
“(v)Other  pending  litigations -As  per  the  policy  of  materiality  defined  by  the board of directors of the 
issuer and disclosed in the offer document.” 

316 
 
(c) five percent of the average of absolute value of profit or loss after 
tax, as per the last three annual restated consolidated financial 
statements of the issuer.] 
   
      666[(1A) All criminal proceedings involving key managerial personnel and senior  
management of the issuer and also the actions by regulato ry authorities and 
statutory authorities against such key managerial personnel and senior management 
of the issuer shall also be disclosed.] 
     (2)  Outstanding dues to creditors:  
(i) Based on the policy on materiality defined by the board of directors of t he 
issuer, details of creditors which include the consolidated number of  
creditors and the aggregate amount involved  
(ii) Consolidated information on outstanding dues to micro, small and medium 
enterprises and other creditors, separately giving details of num ber of cases 
and amount involved; 
(iii) Complete details about outstanding overdues  to material creditors along 
with the name and amount involved for each such material creditor shall be 
disclosed, on the website of the company with a web link thereto.  
 
(3) If any of the above mentioned litigations,  material developments, dues to creditors  
etc., arise after the filing the offer document, the facts shall be incorporated 
appropriately in the offer document. In case there are no such cases, a distinct 
negative statemen t is required to be made in this regard in the offer document. 
Material developments since the date of the last balance sheet.  
(4) Disclosures pertaining to 667[wilful defaulters or fraudulent borrowers] in case 
of a further public offer or a rights issue : If the issuer or any of its promoter or 
director has been declared as a 668[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower] , it 
shall make the following disclosures with respect to each such person separately: 
(a) Name of the person declared as a 669[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower];  
 
 
666 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board o f India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirement s) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 08.03.2025. 
667 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulters”. 
668 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”. 
669 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”. 

317 
 
(b) Name of the Bank declaring the person as a 670[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent 
borrower]; 
(c) Year in which the person was declared as a 671[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent 
borrower]; 
(d) Outstanding amount when the person was declared as a 672[wilful defaulter or a 
fraudulent borrower]; 
(e) Steps taken, if any, by the person for removal of its name from the list of 
673[wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower]; 
(f)  Other disclosures, as deemed fit by the issuer, in order to enabl e investors to 
take an informed decision; 
(g) Any other disclosure as specified by the Board. 
(5) The fact that the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a 674[wilful defaulter 
or a fraudulent borrower]  shall be disclosed prominently on the cover page w ith 
suitable cross-referencing to the inside pages. 
(6) Disclosures specified herein shall be made in a separate chapter or section, 
distinctly identifiable in the Index /Table of Contents. 
 
(B) Government approvals:  
(1) Investment approvals (GoI/ RBI, etc., as appli cable), letter of intent or industrial 
license and declaration of the Central Government, Reserve Bank of India or any 
regulatory authority about the non -responsibility for financial soundness or 
correctness of the statements; 
(2) All government and other appr ovals which are material and necessary for 
carrying on the business and operations of the issuer and material subsidiaries. 
 
(13) Information with respect to group companies 
 
 
670 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requir ements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”. 
671 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”. 
672 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”. 
673 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulters”. 
674 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “wilful defaulter”. 

318 
 
(A) 675[In case of an issuer not being a government company, statutory authority or corporation 
or any special purpose vehicle set up by any of them , the names and regist ered office 
address of all the group companies shall be disclosed in the Offer Document. 
The following information based on the audited statements in respect of top five  group 
companies (based on market capitalization for listed/ based on turnover in case of unlisted) 
for the preceding  three years shall be hosted on the website of the respective group 
company (listed/ unlisted): 
i)   reserves (excluding revaluation reserve); 
ii) sales; 
iii) profit after tax; 
iv) earnings per share; 
v) diluted earnings per share; and 
vi)  net asset value. 
The offer document shall refer the website where the details of the group companies shall 
be available.] 
(B) 676[***]  
(C) 677[***]  
 
 
675 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as follows –  
“(A) In case of an issuer not being a government company, statutory authority or corporation or any special 
purpose vehicle set up by any of them, the following information for the last three years, based on the audited 
statements, in respect of all the group companies for past three years shall be given, wherever applicable, along 
with significant notes of auditors.  
(i) Date of Incorporation; 
(ii) Nature of activities; 
(iii) Equity Capital; 
(iv) Reserves (excluding revaluation reserve); 
(v) Sales; 
(vi) Profit after tax; 
(vii) Earnings per share and Diluted Earnings Per Share; 
(viii) Net Asset Value; 
(ix) In case of listed group companies, the highest and lowest market price of shares during the preceding six 
months; and 
(x) If any of the companies has made public or rights issue in the preceding three years, the issue price of the 
security, the current market price.” 
676 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –  
“(B) In case there are more than five listed group companies, the financial information may be restricted to the 
five largest listed group companies to be determined on the basis of the market capitalization one month before 
the date of filing the draft offer document or in case of a fast track issue, one month before the reference date 
referred to in Explanation to sub -regulation (2) of regulation 99 and in Explanatio n to sub -regulation (2) of 
regulation 156. In case there are less than five listed group companies, the financial information shall be given 
for all the listed group companies and in addition for the largest unlisted group companies (based on turnover) 
so that the total number of listed and unlisted group companies for which the information is required to be given 
does not exceed five.” 
 
 

319 
 
(D) Any pending litigation involving the group compan y which has a material impact on the 
issuer.  
(E) 678(***)  
(F) 679(***)  
(G) Common Pursuits: 
(i) In case there are common pursuits amongst the group companies/ 
subsidiaries/associates companies and the issuer, the reasons and justification for the 
same shall be spelt out and the conflict of interest situations shall be stated. 
(ii) The related business transactions within the group and their significance on the 
financial performance of the issuer. 
(iii) If any of the other group companies/subsidiaries/associate companies has business 
interests in the issuer then the amount of commercial business that the said company 
has /proposes to have with the issuer may be quantified. If no, a distinct negative 
statement may be incorporated to this effect. 
 
(14) Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures: 
(A) Authority for the issue and details of resolution(s) passed for the issue. 
(B) A statement by the issuer that the issuer,  promoters, promoter group, directors , 
person(s) in control of the promoter or issuer, if applicable, or selling shareholders are 
not prohibited from accessing the capital market or debarred from buying, selling  or 
dealing in securities under any order or direction passed by the Board or any securities 
market regulator in any other jurisdiction or any other authority/court.   
 
 
677 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –  
“(C) In case there are no listed group companies, the financial information shall be given for the five largest 
unlisted group companies based on turnover.” 
678  Omitted by th e Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –  
“(E) Information regarding significant adverse factors related to the group companies and in particular regarding:  
(i) whether the company has become a sick company within the meaning of the Sick Industrial 
Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1995 or is under winding up/insolvency proceedings;  
(ii) whether the company has made a loss in the immediately preceding year and if so, the profit or loss 
figures for the immediately preceding three years.” 
679 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) ( Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w-e-f 13.08.2021. Prior to the omission, it read as follows –  
“(F) Disclosure shall be made about group companies which had remained defunct and for which application was 
made to the Registrar of Companies for striking off the name of the com pany, during the five years preceding the 
date of filing draft offer document with the Board. The disclosure shall include reasons for the company having 
become defunct as also all pending litigations, if any, in respect of such companies.”  
 
 

320 
 
(C) A confirmat ion that the issuer, any of  its promoters, promoter group or selling 
shareholders is in compliance with the Companies (Significant Beneficial Ownership) 
Rules, 2018. 
(D) A confirmation whether any of the directors of the issuer are associated with the 
securities market in any manner, and if yes, any outstanding action against them 
initiated by the Board in the past five years.   
(E) Eligibility of the issuer to enter the capital market in terms of these Regulations. 
(Details of compliance with eligibility requireme nts to make a fast track issue, if 
applicable.) 
(F) Compliance with Part B of this Schedule, as the case may be, if applicable. 
(G) Disclaimer clauses: 
(1) The offer document shall contain the following disclaimer clause in bold capital 
letters: 
"It is to be distinctly understood that submission of the draft offer document/draft 
letter of offer/offer document to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) should not in any way be deemed or construed that the same has been 
cleared or approved by SEBI. SEBI does not take any responsibility either for the 
financial soundness of any scheme or the project for which the issue is proposed 
to be made or for the correctness of the statements made or opinions expressed in 
the draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer  document. The lead 
manager(s), has certified that the disclosures made in the draft offer 
document/draft letter of offer/offer document are generally adequate and are in 
conformity with the Regulations. This requirement is to facilitate investors to 
take an informed decision for making investment in the proposed issue.  
 
It should also be clearly understood that while the issuer is primarily responsible 
for the correctness, adequacy and disclosure of all relevant information in the 
draft offer document/dra ft letter of offer/offer document, the lead manager(s) is 
expected to exercise due diligence to ensure that the issuer discharges its 
responsibility adequately in this behalf and towards this purpose, the lead 
manager(s) _______________ has furnished to SE BI a due diligence certificate 
dated ______________ in the format prescribed under Schedule V(A) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 
 

321 
 
The filing of the draft offer document/dr aft letter of offer/offer document does 
not, however, absolve the issuer from any liabilities under the 680[Companies 
Act, 2013] or from the requirement of obtaining such statutory or other 
clearances as may be required for the purpose of the proposed issue. SEBI further 
reserves the right to take up, at any point of time, with the lead manager(s) any 
irregularities or lapses in the draft offer document/draft letter of offer/offer 
document."  
(2) Disclaimer Statement from the issuer and lead manager(s) : A stateme nt to the 
effect that the issuer and the lead manager(s) accept no responsibility for 
statements made otherwise than in the draft offer document/draft letter of 
offer/offer document or in the advertisement or any other material issued by or at 
the instance of the issuer and that anyone placing reliance on any other source of 
information would be doing so at their own risk.  
(H) Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction: A brief paragraph mentioning the jurisdiction 
under which provisions of law and the rules and re gulations are applicable to the draft 
offer document/ draft letter of offer/ offer document. 
(I) Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges. 
(J) Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India, the  Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India or of any other relevant regulatory authority.  
(K) Listing: Names of the designated stock exchange and other stock exchanges to which 
application has been made for listing of the specified securities offered in the present 
issue. 
(L) Consent of the directors, auditors, solic itors or advocates, lead manager(s), registrar to 
the issue, bankers to the issuer and experts.  
(M) Expert opinion obtained, if any.  
(N) Previous public or rights issues, if any, during the last five years: 
(1) Closing date. 
(2) Date of allotment. 
(3) Date of refunds. 
(4) Date of listing on the stock exchange(s). 
(5) If the issue(s) was at premium or discount, the amount thereof. 
(O) Commission or brokerage on previous issues in last five years.  
 
 
680 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words and symbol “Companies Act, 2013]”. 

322 
 
(P) Following particulars in regard to the issuer and other listed group 
companies/subsidiaries/associates which made any capital issue during the last three 
years shall be given: 
(1) Name of the Company. 
(2) Year of Issue. 
(3) Type of Issue (public/rights/composite). 
(4) Amount of issue. 
(5) Date of closure of issue. 
(6) Date of allotment and date of credit of securities to the demat account. 
(7) Date of completion of the project, where object of the issue was financing the 
project. 
(8) Rate of dividend paid. 
(Q) Performance vis-à-vis objects: 
(1) Issuer: 
(a) A list of all the public/rights issues made during the preceding five years, 
along with the year of issue.  
(b) Details of non-achievement of objects, with quantification of  shortfall and 
delays for such public/rights issues.  
(2) Listed Subsidiaries/Listed Promoters: 
(a) A separate paragraph entitled "Performance vis -à-vis objects - Last one 
public/rights issue of subsidiaries /Listed Promoters  ", indicating whether 
all the objects mentioned in the offer document of the last one issue of 
each of such companies during the preceding five years were met. 
(b) If not, details o f non -achievement of objects, with quantification of 
shortfall and delays.  
(R)  Price information of past issues handled by the lead manager(s) in the format given 
below:  
 
 

323 
 
 
5.  In case the 30 th/60th/90th calendar day is a holiday, data from previous tradi ng day to be 
considered. 
681[6. Designated Stock Exchange as disclosed by the respective Issuer at the time of the issue 
shall be considered for disclosing the price information.] 
(S) Stock market data for equity shares of the issuer, if listed:  
Particulars of: 
(1) high, low and average market prices of the equity shares of the issuer during the 
preceding three years; 
(2) monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date of filing the 
draft offer document with the Board which shall be updated till the ti me of filing 
the offer document with the Registrar of Companies; 
(3) number of shares traded on the days when high and low prices were recorded in 
the relevant stock exchange(s) during the said period of (a) and (b) above and 
indicating the total number of day s of trading during the preceding six months 
and the average volume of equity shares traded during that period and a 
statement if the equity shares were not 682[frequently] traded; 
(4) stock market data referred to above shall be shown separately for periods marked 
by a change in capital structure, with such period commencing from the date the 
relevant stock exchange recognises the change in the capital structure (e.g. when 
the shares have become ex-rights or ex-bonus); 
(5) market price of equity shares immediately a fter the date on which the resolution 
of the board of directors approving the issue; 
 
 
681 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of  Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 
682 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word “actively”. 

324 
 
(6) volume of securities traded in each month during the  six months preceding the 
date on which the offer document is filed with the Registrar of Companies; and 
(7) volume of shares traded along with high, low and average prices of shares of the 
issuer shall also be stated for respective periods. 
Explanation: If the equity shares of the issuer are listed on more than one stock 
exchange, the above information shall be provided for each stock exchange 
separately. Average market prices in point (1) above should be calculated on 
closing price on the stock exchange. 
  
(T) Mechanism evolved for redressal of investor grievances:  
(1) arrangements or mechanism evolved by the issuer for redressal o f investor 
grievances including through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES) 
(2) number of investor complaints received during the preceding three years and the 
number of complaints disposed off during that period 
(3) number of investor complaints pending on th e date of filing the draft offer 
document 
(4) number of investor complaints pending on the date of filing the draft offer 
document in respect of the five largest (in terms of market capitalization) listed 
group companies. 
(5) time normally taken by the issuer for disposal of various types of investor 
grievances. 
(6) Disclosures prescribed under sub -clauses (2) to (5) shall  also be made in regard 
to the listed subsidiaries.  
683[(U) Exemption from complying with any provisions of securities laws, if any, granted by 
SEBI shall be disclosed.] 
(15) Offering Information: 
(A) Terms of the Issue: 
(a) Statement that the shares issued in the issue shall be pari passu with the existing 
shares in all respects including dividends. 684[In case of companies having SR 
equity shares, a statement that the shares issued in the issue shall be pari passu with 
 
 
683 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 
684 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulat ions, 2019  
w.e.f.29.07.2019. 

325 
 
the existing shares (excluding SR equity shares) in all respects including 
dividends.] 
(b) Statement that in the case of offer for sale, the dividend for the entire year shall be 
payable to the transferees.   
(c) Face value and issue price/ floor price/ price band. 
(d) Rights of the instrument holders.  685[ In case of an issuer having SR equity shares, 
the special rights of such SR shareholders shall be disclosed alongwith the 
circumstances in which the SR equity sha res shall be treated as ordinary equity 
shares.] 
(e) Market lot. 
(f) Nomination facility to investor. 
(g) Period of subscription list of the public issue.  
(h) Statement that “if, as prescribed, minimum subscription in the issue shall be 90% 
of the fresh issue portion” th e issuer does not receive the minimum subscription of 
ninety per cent. of the offer through offer document (except in case of an offer for 
sale of specified securities) on the date of closure of the issue, or if the subscription 
level falls below ninety pe r cent. after the closure of issue on account of cheques 
having being returned unpaid (in case of rights issues) or withdrawal of 
applications, or after technical rejections, or if the listing or trading permission is 
not obtained from the stock exchanges for the securities so offered under the offer 
document, the issuer shall forthwith refund the entire subscription amount 
received. If there is a delay beyond  fifteen days after the issuer becomes liable to 
pay the amount, the issuer  and every director of t he issuer  who are officers in 
default, shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum."   
(i) For Composite Issues: Statement that the requirement of ’minimum subscription’ 
is satisfied both jointly and severally, i.e., independently for both ri ghts and public 
issues, and that if the issuer does not receive the minimum subscription in either of 
the issues, the issuer shall refund the entire subscription received. 
(j) Arrangements for Disposal of Odd Lots: 
(a) Any arrangements made by the issuer for p roviding liquidity for and  
consolidation of the shares held in odd lots, particularly when such odd  lots 
arise on account of issues by way of rights, bonus, conversion of  debentures or 
warrants, etc., shall be intimated to the shareholders or investors. 
 
 
685 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2019  
w.e.f.29.07.2019. 

326 
 
(b) The issuer is free to make arrangements for providing liquidity in respect  of 
odd lot shares through any investment or finance company, broking  firms or 
through any other agency and the particulars of such  arrangement, if any, may 
be disclosed in the offer document related to the concerned issue of capital. 
(c) The lead merchant banker shall ascertain whether the issuer coming for  fresh 
issue of capital proposes to set up trusts in order to provide service  to the 
investors in the matter of disposal of odd  lot shares of the issuer  held by them 
and if so, disclosures relating to setting up and operation of  the trust shall be 
contained in the offer document. 
(d) Whenever any issue results in issue of shares in odd lots, the issuer, shall  as far as 
possible issue certificates in the denomination of 1-2-5-10-20-50 shares. 
(k) Restrictions, if any, on transfer and transmission of shares or debentures and on 
their consolidation or splitting. 
(l) New Financial Instruments: Terms and conditions including redemption, security, 
conversion and any other relevant features of any new financial instruments such as 
deep discount bonds, debentures with warrants, secured premium notes etc. 
(m) Allotment only in Dematerialised Form: A statement to the effect that specified 
securities shall be allotted only in dematerialised form 686[***]. 
 
(B) Issue Procedure:  
(1) Fixed price issue or book building procedure as may be applicable, including 
details regarding bid form/application form, who can bid/apply, maximum and 
minimum bid/application size, bidd ing process, bidding, bids at different price 
levels, etc. 
(2) Issue of securities in dematerialised form:  
(a) In case of a public issue  or rights issue  (subject to sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 91 , the specified securities issued shall be issued only in 
dematerialized form in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013. A 
statement that furnishing the details of depositor y account is mandatory 
and applications without depositor y account shall be treated as incomplete 
and rejected. Investors will not have the optio n of getting the allotment of 
 
 
686 The symbol and words “ , subject to the availability of the option to receive physical certificates of specified securities 
in a rights issue for a period of six months from the date of coming into force of these regulations ” omitted by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 

327 
 
specified securities in physical form. However, they may get the specified 
securities rematerialised subsequent to allotment.  
(b) Statement that the specified securities, on allotment, shall be traded on 
stock exchanges in demat mode only.  
(c) Statement that single bid from any investor shall not exceed the investment 
limit/maximum number of specified securities that can be held by such 
investor under the relevant regulations/statutory guidelines. 
(d)  Statement that the correct procedur e for applications by Hindu Undivided 
Families and the fact that applications by Hindu Undivided Families would 
be treated as on par with applications by individuals; 
(e) Applications by mutual funds: 
(i) Statement under the heads "Procedure for applications by mu tual 
funds" and "Multiple Applications" to indicate that a separate 
application can be made in respect of each scheme of an Indian 
mutual fund registered with the Board and that such applications 
shall not be treated as multiple applications. 
(ii) Statement that applications made by an asset management company 
or a custodian of a mutual fund shall clearly indicate the name of 
the concerned scheme for which the application is being made. 
(f) Applications by non-resident Indians:  
(i) Statement that "Non-resident Indian applicants may please note that 
only such applications as are accompanied by payment in free 
foreign exchange shall be considered for allotment under the 
reserved category. The non -resident Indians who intend to make 
payment through Non -Resident Ordinary (N RO) accounts shall use 
the form meant for Resident Indians and shall not use the forms 
meant for reserved category." 
(g) Application by ASBA investors:  
(i) Details of Application Supported by Blocked Amount process 
including specific instructions for submitting Application Supported 
by Blocked Amount. 
(ii) A statement that each application form shall bear the stamp of the 
syndicate member/SCSBs/registrar and share transfer 
agents/depository participants/stock brokers and if not, the same 
shall be rejected. 

328 
 
(3) Escrow mechanism for anchor investors: Escrow account of the issuer. 
(4) Terms of payment and payment into the escrow collection account by anchor 
investors. 
(5) Electronic registration of bids. 
(6) Build-up of the book and revision of bids. In this regard, it may be specifically  
disclosed that qualified institutional buyers and non -institutional investors can 
neither lower or withdraw their bids at any stage and retail individual investors 
can withdraw or revise their bids till issue closure date  
(7) Price discovery and allocation. 
(8) Signing of underwriting agreement. 
(9) Filing of the offer document. 
(10) Announcement of pre-issue advertisement. 
(11) Issuance of Confirmation of Allocation Note (“CAN”) and allotment in the 
Issue. 
(12) Designated date. 
(13) General instructions: 
(a) Do’s and don’ts. 
(b) Instructions for completing the bid form. 
(c) Bidders’ bank account details. 
(d) Bids by non -resident Indians or foreign portfolio investors, foreign 
venture capital investors on repatriation basis 
(14) Payment instructions: 
(a) Payment into escrow account of the issuer.  
(b) Payment instructions for Application Supported by Blocked Amount. 
(15) Submission of bid form. 
(16) Other instructions: 
(a) Joint bids in the case of individuals. 
(b) Multiple bids. 
(c) Instructions to the applicants to mention the Permanent Account 
Number of the sole / first holder in the a pplication form, irrespective of 
the amount for which application or bid is made, along with the 
instruction that applications without Permanent Account Number would 
be rejected except where the requirement to hold a permanent account 
number has been specifically exempt under applicable law. 
(d) Instances when an application would be rejected on technical grounds 

329 
 
(e) Equity shares in demat form with the depositories. 
(f) Investor’s attention shall also be invited to contact the compliance 
officer in case of any pre -issue or post-issue related problems regarding 
share certificates/demat credit/refund orders/ unblocking etc.  
(17) Disposal of applications. 
(18) Provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable, relating to punishment for 
fictitious applications, including to any person who: 
(a) makes or abets making of an application in a fictitious name to a 
company for acquiring, or subscribing for, its securities, or 
(b) makes or abets making of multiple applications to a company in 
different names or in different combinations of his/her name or surname 
for acquiring or subscribing for its securities,  shall be punishable with 
fine and/or imprisonment for such amount  and/or  term as may be 
prescribed under section 447 of the Companies Act 2013. 
(19)  Interest on refund of excess bid amount, in case of anchor investors. 
(20) Names of entities responsible for finalising the basis of allotment in a fair and 
proper manner.  
(21) Procedure and time of schedule for allotment and 687[***] demat credit. 
(22) Method of allotment as may be prescribed by the Board from time to time. 
(23) Letters of Allotment or refund orders or instructions to Self Certified Syndicate 
Banks in Application Supported by Blocked Amount process. The issuer shall 
ensure that “at par” facility is provided for encashment of refund orders for 
applications other than Application Supported by Blocked Amount process. 
(24) Mode of making refunds:  
(a) The mode in which the issuer shall refund the application money to 
applicants in case of an oversubscription or failure to list. 
(b) If the issuer proposes to use more  than one mode of making refunds to 
applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted.  
(c) The permissible modes of making refunds and unblocking of funds are as 
follows: 
(i)  In case of applicants residing in any of the centres specified by the 
Board: by crediting of refunds to the bank accounts of applicants 
 
 
687 The words and symbols “issue of certificates (for rights issues )/” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022.  

330 
 
through electronic transfer of funds by or NACH (National 
Automated Clearing House ), as applicable,  Direct Credit, RTGS 
(Real Time Gross Settlement) or NEFT (National Electronic Funds  
Transfer), as is for the time being permitted by the Reserve Bank of 
India; 
(ii)  In case of other applicants: by dispatch of refund orders by 
registered post/unblocking in case of ASBA  
(25) Payment of Interest in case of delay in despatch of allotment letter s or refund 
orders/instruction to self-certified syndicate banks by the registrar  in the case of 
public issues:  
(a) in case of a fixed price issue,  a statement that  the issuer shall allot 
securities offered to the public shall be made within the period prescr ibed 
by the Board. The issuer shall also pay interest at the rate of fifteen per 
cent. per annum if the allotment letters or refund orders have not been 
despatched to the applicants or if, in a case where the refund or portion 
thereof is made in electronic manner, the refund instructions have not been 
given to the clearing system in the disclosed manner within  eight days 
from the date of the closure of the issue. However applications received 
after the closure of issue in fulfilment of underwriting obligati ons to meet 
the minimum subscription requirement, shall not be entitled for the said 
interest. 
(b) In case of a book -built issue,  a statement that the issuer shall allot 
securities offered to the public within the period prescribed by the Board. 
The issuer fur ther agrees that it shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen per 
cent. per annum if the allotment letters or refund orders/ unblocking 
instructions have not been despatched to the applicants or if, in a case 
where the refund or portion thereof is made in electronic manner, the 
refund instructions have not been given to the clearing system in the 
disclosed manner within six days from the date of the closure of the issue. 
(c) In case of a rights issue,  a statement that the issuer shall allot securities 
offered to the shareholders within fifteen days of the closure of the rights 
issue. The issuer further agrees that it shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen 
per cent. per annum if the allotment letters or refund orders/ unblocking 
instructions have not been desp atched to the applicants or if, in a case 
where the refund or portion thereof is made in electronic manner, the 

331 
 
refund instructions have not been given to the clearing system in the 
disclosed manner within  fifteen days from the date of the closure of the 
issue.  
(26) Undertaking by the issuer: 
a) The following undertaking by the issuer shall be disclosed: 
(i) that the complaints received in respect of the issue shall be attended 
to by the issuer expeditiously and satisfactorily; 
(ii) that all steps for completion of the nec essary formalities for listing 
and commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the 
securities are to be listed are taken within the period prescribed by 
the Board; 
(iii) that the issuer shall apply in advance for the listing of equities on 
the conversion of debentures/ bonds; 
(iv) that the funds required for making refunds/unblocking to 
unsuccessful applicants as per the mode(s) disclosed shall be made 
available to the registrar to the issue by the issuer; 
(v) that where refunds are made through electronic transf er of funds, a 
suitable communication shall be sent to the applicant within the 
specified period of closure of the issue giving details of the bank 
where refunds shall be credited along with amount and expected 
date of electronic credit of refund; 
(vi) that the promoters’ contribution in full, wherever required, shall be 
brought in advance before the Issue opens for public subscription 
and the balance, if any, shall be brought on a pro rata basis before 
the calls are made on public in accordance with applicable 
provisions in these regulations;  
(vii) that no further issue of securities shall be made till the securities 
offered through the offer document are listed or till the application 
monies are refunded on account of non -listing, under subscription, 
etc., other than as disclosed in accordance with 688[regulation 56]; 
(viii) that adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all 
Applications Supported by Blocked Amount and to consider them 
 
 
688 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the word and numbers “Regulation 19”. 

332 
 
similar to non -ASBA applications while finalizing the basis of 
allotment; 
b) In case of an issue of convertible debt instruments, the issuer shall also give 
the following additional undertakings: 
(i) it shall forward the details of utilisation of the funds raised through 
the convertible debt instruments duly certified by the statutory 
auditors of the issuer, to the debenture trustees at the end of each 
half-year. 
(ii) it shall disclose the complete name and address of the debenture 
trustee in the annual report. 
(iii) it shall provide a compliance certificate to the convertible debt 
instrument holders (on year ly basis) in respect of compliance with 
the terms and conditions of issue of convertible debt instruments, 
duly certified by the debenture trustee. 
(iv) it shall furnish a confirmation certificate that the security created 
by the issuer in favour of the convert ible debt instrument holders is 
properly maintained and is adequate to meet the payment 
obligations towards the convertible debt instrument holders in the 
event of default. 
(v) it shall extend necessary cooperation to the credit rating  
agency/agencies for prov iding true and adequate information till 
the debt obligations in respect of the instrument are outstanding. 
c) A statement that  the issuer reserves the right not to proceed with the issue 
after the bidding and if so, the reason thereof as a public notice with in two 
days of the closure of the issue. The public notice shall be issued in the 
same newspapers where the pre -issue advertisement had appeared. The 
stock exchanges where the specified securities were proposed to be listed 
shall also be informed promptly.  
d) a statement that if the issuer withdraws the issue at any stage including after 
closure of bidding, the issuer shall be required to file a fresh draft offer 
document with the Board.  
(27) Utilisation of Issue Proceeds:  
(a) A statement by the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that: 

333 
 
(i) all monies received out of issue of specified securities to the public 
shall be transferred to a separate bank account other than the bank 
account referred to in the Companies Act,2013; 
(ii) details of all monies utilised out of  the issue referred to in sub -
item(i) shall be disclosed and continue to be disclosed till the time 
any part of the issue proceeds remains unutilised under an 
appropriate separate head in the balance  sheet of the issuer 
indicating the purpose for which suc h monies had been utilised; 
and 
(iii) details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of specified 
securities referred to in sub -item (i) shall be disclosed under an 
appropriate separate head in the balance sheet of the issuer 
indicating the form in which such  unutilised monies have been 
invested. 
(b) For an issue other than an offer for sale or a public issue made by any 
scheduled commercial bank or a public financial institution, a statement of 
the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that: 
(i) the utilisat ion of monies received under promoters’ contribution 
and from reservations shall be disclosed and continue to be 
disclosed under an appropriate head in the balance sheet of the 
issuer, till the time any part of the issue proceeds remains 
unutilised, indicating the purpose for which such monies have been 
utilised; 
(ii) the details of all unutilised monies out of the funds received under 
promoters’ contribution and from reservations shall be disclosed 
under a separate head in the balance sheet of the issuer, indic ating 
the form in which such unutilised monies have been invested 
(28) Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any: 
(a) Investment by non-resident Indians. 
(b) Investment by foreign portfolio investors. 
(c) Investment by other non-residents.  
 
(C) Description of Equity Shares and Terms of the Articles of Association: 
Main provisions of the Articles of Association including rights of the members 
regarding voting, dividend, lien on shares and the process for modification of such 

334 
 
rights, forfeiture of shares and  restrictions, if any, on transfer and transmission of 
securities and their consolidation or splitting.  
 
(16) Any other material disclosures, as deemed necessary. 
 
(17) In case of a 689[fast track public issue ], the disclosures specified in this Part, which 
have been indicated in 690[Part D], need not be made. 
 
(18) Other Information: 
List of material contracts and inspection of documents for inspection: 
(1) Material contracts. 
(2) Material Documents  
(3) Time and place at which the contracts, together with documents, will be 
available for inspection from the date of the offer document until the date of 
closing of the subscription list. 
691[Provided that the material contracts and material documents shall also be made 
available for inspection through online means.] 
(4) IPO grading reports for each of the grades obtained  
(5) The draft offer document/ draft letter of offer and offer document shall be 
approved by the Board of Directors of the issuer and shall be signed by all 
directors including the Managing Director within the meaning of the Compani es 
Act, 2013 or Manager, within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Chief Financial Officer or any other person heading the finance function and 
discharging that function. The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures 
are true and correct. 
DECLARATION BY THE ISSUER:  We hereby declare that all relevant 
provisions of the the Companies Act, 2013 and the guidelines /regulations issued 
by the Government of India or the guidelines/regulations issued by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of I ndia, established under section 3 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, as the case may be, have been complied 
 
 
689 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and  Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “fast track issue”. 
690 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 for the words “Part B”. 
691 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 23.5.2023. 

335 
 
with and no statement made in the Red Herring Prospectus is contrary to the 
provisions of the the Companies Act, 2013, the Sec urities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992 or rules made or guidelines or regulations issued there under, 
as the case may be. We further certify that all statements are true and correct. 
 
692 [Part B-Disclosures in a letter of offer 
(1) An issuer proposing a  rights issue shall make the following disclosures, as far as 
possible, in the draft letter of offer /letter of offer in the order in which the disclosures 
are specified in this clause: 
(I) Cover Pages: The cover page paper shall be of adequate thickness (mini mum 
hundred GSM quality). 
(a) Front Cover Pages: 
i. Front inside cover page shall be kept blank. 
ii. Front outside cover page shall contain only the following details: 
(a) Type of letter of offer (“Draft Letter of Offer” or “Letter of  
Offer”). 
(b) Date of the draft letter of offer / letter of offer. 
(c) Name of the issuer, its logo, date and place of its incorporation, 
corporate identity number, telephone number, address of its 
registered and corporate offices, website address and e-mail address 
(mention if where there has be en any change in the address of the 
registered office or the name of the issuer).  
(d) Nature, number and price of specified securities offered and issue 
size, as may be applicable. 
(e) Name of the promoter(s). 
(f) Name of the issuer or any of its promoters or directo rs being a 
wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower  and a cross-reference to the 
relevant section. 
 
 
692 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue o f Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.04.2025.  

336 
 
(g) The following clause on “General Risk” shall be incorporated in a 
box format: 
"Investment in equity and equity related securities involve a 
degree of risk a nd investors should not invest any funds in this 
offer unless they can afford to take the risk with such investment. 
Investors are advised to read the risk factors carefully before 
taking an investment decision in this offering. For taking an 
investment decision, investors shall rely on their own examination 
of the issuer and the offer, including the risks involved. The 
securities have not been recommended or approved by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI 
guarantee the accuracy or adequacy of this document. Specific 
attention of investors is invited to the statement of ‘Risk factors’ 
given on page number ...…. The following clause on ‘Issuer’s 
Absolute Responsibility’ shall be incorporated in a box format: 
 
"The issuer, having ma de all reasonable inquiries, accepts 
responsibility for and confirms that this letter of offer contains all 
information with regard to the issuer and the issue, which is 
material in the context of the issue, and that the information 
contained in the letter  of offer is true and correct in all material 
aspects and is not misleading in any material respect, that the 
opinions and intentions expressed herein are honestly held and that 
there are no other facts, the omission of which make this document 
as a whole or any of such information or the expression of any 
such opinions or intentions misleading in any material respect." 
(h) Name, logo and address of the registrar to the issue, along with its 
telephone number, website address and e-mail address. 
(i) Issue schedule: 
a. Last date for credit of rights entitlements 
b. Date of opening of the issue 
c. Last date for on-market renunciation of rights entitlements 
d. Date of closing of the issue 

337 
 
e. Date of finalization of basis of allotment 
f. Date of allotment 
g. Date of credit of rights equity shares 
h. Date of listing 
 
(j) Name(s) of the stock exchanges where the specified securities are 
listed and the details of their in -principle approval for listing 
obtained from these stock  exchange(s) along with the name of 
Designated Stock Exchange. 
(II) Back cover pages: 
1. The back inside cover page and back outside cover page shall be kept 
blank. 
2. The letter of offer should be in clear readable font, preferably of minimum 
font size ten. 
(III) Table of contents: The table of contents shall appear immediately after the front 
inside cover page. 
(IV) Definitions and abbreviations: 
a) Conventional or general terms 
b) Issue related terms 
c) Issuer and industry related terms 
d) Abbreviations 
(V) Letter of offer  
A. Description of the business of the Issuer in a summary form. 
B. Intention and extent of particip ation by promoter/promoter group with 
respect to: 
a) their rights entitlement and intention to subscribe to their rights 
entitlement 
b) their intention to subscribe over and above their rights entitlement 
c) their intention to renounce their rights entitlement, to specific 
investor(s). The names of the specific investor(s) shall be 
disclosed in a public advertisement at least two days prior to the 

338 
 
issue opening date. 
 Provided that such participation shall not result in a breach of the 
minimum public shareholding re quirement stipulated in the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  
C. Intention of issuer to allot the under -subscribed portion of the rights 
issue to any specific investor(s). Name(s) of t he specific investor(s) 
shall be disclosed in a public advertisement two days prior to the issue 
opening date.  
D. Details of the issuer or any of its promoters or directors being a willful 
defaulter or a fraudulent borrower.  
a) Name of the person declared as a  wilful defaulter or a fraudulent 
borrower 
b) Name of the bank declaring the person as a wilful defaulter or a 
fraudulent borrower 
c) Year in which the person was declared as a wilful defaulter or a 
fraudulent borrower 
d) Outstanding amount when the person was decl ared as a wilful 
defaulter or a fraudulent borrower 
e) Steps taken, if any, by the person for removal of its name from the 
list of wilful defaulter or a fraudulent borrower 
f) Other disclosures, as deemed fit by the issuer, in order to enable 
investors to take an informed decision. 
E. Outstanding litigations: Summary of outstanding litigations in a tabular 
format along with the amount involved, wherever quantifiable for the 
pending matters which, if they result in an adverse outcome, would 
materially and adversely a ffect the operations or the financial position 
of the issuer: 
1. Matters which are pending: 

339 
 
i. Involving criminal liability on the part of the issuer.  
ii. Material violations of the statutory regulations by the issuer. 
iii. Economic offences where proceedings have been initiated 
against the issuer.  
2. For the purpose of determining materiality, the threshold shall be 
lower of threshold criteria mentioned below– 
(1) As per the policy of materiality defined by the board of 
directors of the issuer and disclosed in the offer document;  
(2) Litigation where the value or expected impact in terms of 
value, exceeds the lower of the following: 
(a) two percent of turnover, as per the latest annual restated 
consolidated financial statements of the issuer; 
(b) two percent of net worth, as per the latest annual restated 
consolidated financial statements of the issuer, except in 
case the arithmetic value of the net worth is negative; or 
(c) five percent of the average of absolute value of profit or 
loss after tax, as per the last three annual restate d 
consolidated financial statements of the issuer. 
3. These disclosures shall be made in respect of the issuer and the 
subsidiary companies of the issuer as per the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
(VI) Risk factors: 
A. Risk factors shall be in relation to the following: 
i. issue and objects of the issue; 
ii. risks material to the issuer and its business; 
  in each case above, where applicable, along with instances of occurrence 
of such risk in the p ast and financial or other impact thereof, if any, on the 
issuer and its business. 
(VII) Whether the issuer is in compliance with the equity listing agreement or the 

340 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulat ions, 2015 (as applicable) for a period of at least three 
years immediately preceding the reference date. If not, details for such non -
compliance. 
(VIII) Whether the issuer has redressed at least ninety -five percent of the complaints 
received from the investors until the end of the quarter immediately preceding the 
month of the reference date. If not, details of the same. 
(IX) Details of the following actions along with the potential adverse impact on the 
company, where against the issuer or its promoters or whole time directors-  
i. Show-cause notice(s) has been issued by the Board or the Adjudicating 
Officer in a proceeding for imposition of penalty; or 
ii. Prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the Board; 
(X) Details including reasons, period, etc. where the equity shar es of the company 
have been suspended from trading as a disciplinary measure during last three years 
immediately preceding the reference date. 
(XI) Introduction: 
A. General Information: 
1. Names, addresses, telephone numbers and e -mail addresses of the 
Company Secretary and compliance officer of the issuer. 
2. Name, address, telephone number and e -mail address of the Statutory 
Auditor(s) of the issuer. 
3. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, contact person, website addresses 
and e -mail addresses of the bankers to the issue,  self-certified syndicate 
bankers and legal advisors to the issue; URL of SEBI website listing out the 
details of self- certified syndicate banks, registrar to issue and share transfer 
agents, depository participants, etc. 
4. Following details of credit ratin g in case of an issue of convertible debt 
instrument: 
a. The names of all the credit rating agencies from which credit 
rating including unaccepted rating has been obtained for the 

341 
 
issue of convertible debt instruments. 
b. Details of all credit ratings, including  unaccepted ratings, 
obtained for the issue of convertible debt instruments. 
c. All credit ratings obtained during the preceding three years for 
any of the issuer’s listed convertible debt instruments at the time 
of accessing the market through a convertible debt instrument. 
5. Name, address, telephone number, website address and e-mail address of 
the debenture trustee in case of an issue of convertible debt instruments. 
6. Name, address, telephone number and e -mail address of the monitoring 
agency. 
7. Details of underwriting: 
a. Names, address, telephone numbers, and e -mail address of the 
underwriters and the amount underwritten by each of them. 
b. Declaration by the board of directors of the issuer that the 
underwriters have sufficient resources to discharge their 
respective obligations. 
c. In case of partial underwriting of the issue, the extent of such 
underwriting. 
d. Details of the final underwriting arrangement, indicating actual 
number of specified securities underwritten, in the letter of offer 
filed with the designated stock exchange. 
8. The fact of filing the letter of offer with the Board and the stock 
exchange(s) and the office of the Board where the letter of offer has been 
filed. 
B. Capital Structure: The capital structure in the following manner in a tabular 
form: 
1. Authorised, issued and subscribed capital, after suitable incorporation 
of the outstanding convertible securities (number of securities, description 
and aggregate nominal value). 
2. Paid-up capital. 

342 
 
(a) After the issue. 
(b) Assuming conversion of convertible securities, warra nts, if any, 
and employee stock options that vest until the allotment date. 
3. The following details of outstanding instruments: 
(A) Details of options, if any. 
(B) Details of convertible securities, if any. 
4. Details of specified securities held by the promoter and pr omoter group 
including the details of lock -in, pledge of and encumbrance on such 
specified securities. This information can be either incorporated by 
reference with specific website details of stock exchange(s) or by 
providing required details in the letter of offer. 
5. Details of specified securities acquired by the promoter and promoter 
group in the last one year immediately preceding the date of filing of the 
letter of offer with the designated stock exchange  
6. Ex-rights price as referred to under clause (b)  of sub -regulation 4 of 
regulation 10 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulation, 2011. 
7. Shareholding pattern as in the format prescribed in the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obli gations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as submitted to the stock  exchanges. 
This information can be either incorporated by reference with specific 
website details of stock exchange(s) or by providing required details in the 
letter of offer.  
8. Details of the shareholders holding more than one per cent. of the share 
capital of the  issuer. This information can be either incorporated by 
reference with specific website details of stock exchange(s) or by 
providing required details in the letter of offer.  
9. Any issuance of equity shares made in the last one year for 
consideration other than cash. 
(XII) Particulars of the Issue 
(A) Objects of the Issue:  

343 
 
( 1 ) Objects of the issue for which funds are being raised 
( 2 ) If the objects of the issue is repayment of loan or  any other debt, then 
the following disclosures shall be made: 
(a) details of loan proposed to be repaid such as name of the lender, 
tenure, brief terms and conditions and amount outstanding;  
( 3 ) If one of the objects is investment in a joint venture or subsidiar y or an 
acquisition, the following additional disclosures shall be made: 
(a) details of the form of investment, i.e. equity, debt or any other 
instrument; 
(b) if the form of investment has not been decided, a statement to that 
effect; 
(c) if the investment is in debt instruments, complete details regarding 
the rate of interest, nature of security, terms of repayment, 
subordination, etc.; 
(d) nature of benefit expected to accrue to the issuer as a result of the 
investment; 
( 4 ) If one of the objects of the issue is to grant a loan to an entity other than 
a subsidiary, details of the loan agreements including the rate of interest, 
whether secured or unsecured, duration, nature of security, terms of 
repayment, subordination, etc. and the nature of benefit expected to accrue 
to the issuer as a result of the investment. If such a loan is to be granted to 
any of the group companies, details of the same. 
( 5 ) If one of the objects of the issue is utilisation of the issue proceeds for 
long term working capital, the following additional disclo sures on a 
standalone basis, based on audited standalone financial statements: 
(a) Basis of estimation of working capital requirement, along with 
relevant assumptions. 
(b) Reasons for raising additional working capital, substantiating the 
same with relevant facts and figures. 

344 
 
(c) Details of the projected working capital requirement including  
detailed assessment of working capital after implementation of the 
project or achievement of objects of the issue, as the case may be, 
capacity utilisation assumptions, break-up of expected current assets 
into raw materials, finished goods, work in progress, sundry debtors 
etc., along with the assumption about the holding norms for each 
type of current asset, total current liabilities, net current assets and 
envisaged sources of finance for net current assets, i.e. bank finance, 
institutional finance, own funds, etc. 
(d) Total envisaged working capital requirement in a tabular form, the 
margin money thereof and the portion to be financed by any bank(s) 
or otherwise. 
(e) Details of the exist ing working capital available with the issuer, 
along with a break -up of total current assets into raw materials, 
finished goods, work in progress, sundry debtors, etc., total current 
liabilities, net current assets and sources of finance for net current 
assets, i.e. bank finance, institutional finance, own funds, etc. 
(f) If no working capital is shown as a part of the project for which the 
issue is being made, the reasons for the same. 
Provided that such standalone financial statements shall be restated 
if there are any restatements/adjustments in the restated consolidated 
financial statements which may have impact on the audited 
standalone financial statements. 
( 6 ) If an object of the issue is to fund a project, the following details shall 
be given: 
(a) break-up of th e cost of the project for which the money is being 
raised; 
(b) means of financing for the project. 
(c) location of the project 
(d) plant and machinery, technology, process, etc. 

345 
 
(e) collaboration, performance guarantee if any, or assistance in 
marketing by the collaborators. 
(f) facilities for raw materials and utilities like water, electricity, etc. 
(g) if no working capital is shown as a part of the project for which the 
issue is being made, the reasons for the same. 
( 7 ) If one of the objects of the issue is to purchase any plant, m achinery, 
technology, process, etc., the following details shall be given: 
(a) Details shall be given in a tabular form, which shall include the 
details of the equipment required to be bought by the issuer, cost of 
the equipment, name of the suppliers, date of  placement of order and 
the date or expected date of supply, etc. 
(b) In case the order for the equipment is yet to be placed, the date of 
quotations relied upon for the cost estimates given shall also be 
mentioned. 
(c) The percentage and value terms of the equipm ent for which orders 
are yet to be placed shall be stated. 
(d) The details of the second hand equipment bought or proposed to be 
bought, if any, including the age of the machines, balance estimated 
life, etc. shall also be given. 
( 8 ) If warrants or partly paid sha res are proposed to be issued in a rights 
issue, disclosure of the objects towards which the funds from 
conversions of warrants/call money for partly paid shares are proposed 
to be used. 
(B) Requirement of Funds: 
( 1 ) Where the issuer proposes to undertake more tha n one activity or 
project, such as diversification, modernisation, expansion, etc., the total 
project cost activity-wise or project wise, as the case may be. 
( 2 ) Where the issuer is implementing the project in a phased manner, the 
cost of each phase including the phase, if any, which has already been 

346 
 
implemented. 
( 3 ) Details of all material existing or anticipated transactions in relation to 
the utlisation of the issue proceeds or project cost with promoters, 
directors, key managerial personnel,  senior management,  associate 
companies (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013). The relevant 
documents shall be included in the list of material documents for 
inspection. 
( 4 ) If any part of the proceeds of the issue is to be applied directly or 
indirectly: 
(a) in the purchase of any business; or 
(b) in the purchase of an interest in any business and by reason of that 
purchase, or anything to be done in consequence thereof, or in 
connection therewith; the issuer will become entitled to an interest in 
respect to either the capital or p rofits and losses or both, in such 
business exceeding fifty per cent. thereof;  
a report made by accountants (who shall be named in the letter of 
offer) upon: 
i. the profits or losses of the business of each of three completed 
financial years immediately preceding the issue of the letter of 
offer; and 
ii. the assets and liabilities of the business at the last date to 
which the accounts of the business were made, being a date 
not more than six months before the date of the issue of the 
letter of offer. 
iii. the issuer c ompany may also voluntarily include proforma 
financial statements to disclose the impact of such purchase, 
for such financial periods as determined by the issuer 
company, provided such proforma financial statements are 
prepared in accordance with any guida nce note, standard on 
assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) from time to time and 
certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who 

347 
 
hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the 
ICAI. 
( 5 ) If: 
A. any part of the proceeds of the issue is to be applied directly or 
indirectly in any manner resulting in the acquisition by the issuer of 
shares in any other body corporate; and 
B. by reason of that acquisition or anything to be don e in 
consequence thereof or in connection therewith, that body corporate 
will become a subsidiary of the issuer; 
a report made by accountants (who shall be named in the letter of 
offer) upon: 
i. the profits or losses of the other body corporate for each of th e 
three completed financial years immediately preceding the 
issue of the Letter of Offer; and 
ii. the assets and liabilities of the other body corporate at the last 
date to which its accounts were  made, being a date not more 
than six months before the date of the issue of the letter of 
offer.  
iii. the issuer company may also voluntarily include proforma 
financial statements to disclose the impact of such acquisition, 
for such financial periods as determined by the issuer 
company, provided such proforma financial st atements are 
prepared in accordance with any guidance note, standard on 
assurance engagement or guidelines issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) from time to time and 
certified by the statutory auditor or chartered accountants, who 
hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the 
ICAI. 
(C) Strategic partners to the project or objects of the issue. 
(D) Financial partners to the project or objects of the issue. 
(E) Funding plan (Means of Finance): 

348 
 
1. An undertaking by the issuer con firming that firm arrangements of 
finance through verifiable means towards seventy -five per cent. of the 
stated means of finance, excluding the amount to be raised through the 
proposed issue and existing identifiable internal accruals, have been  
made. 
2. Balance portion of the means of finance for which no firm 
arrangement has been made without specification. 
3. Details of funds tied up and the avenues for deployment of excess 
proceeds, if any. 
(F) Appraisal (if applicable): 
1. Scope and purpose of the appraisal, if any , along with the date of  
appraisal. 
2. Cost of the project and means of finance as per the appraisal  
report. 
3. Explanation of revision, if any, in the project cost and the means of 
finance after the date of issue of the appraisal report. 
4. Weaknesses, qualificati ons and threats given in the appraisal 
report, by way of risk factors. 
(G) Schedule of implementation: The schedule of implementation of the 
project and the progress made so far, giving details of land acquisition, civil 
works, installation of plant and machin ery, trial production, date of 
commercial production and reasons for delay, if any. 
(H) Deployment of funds: 
1. Details of the sources of funds and the deployment of these funds 
on the project (where the issuer is raising capital for a project), up to a 
date not earlier than two months from the date of filing the letter of 
offer with the designated stock exchange, as certified by a chartered 
accountant, along with the name of the chartered accountant and the 
date of the certificate. 
2. Where share application money b rought in advance by the 
promoters is deployed  in the project and the same is being adjusted 
towards their rights entitlement in the rights issue, the extent of 

349 
 
deployment and utilisation of the funds brought in by the promoters. 
(I) Sources of financing of fu nds already deployed: Means and source of 
financing, including details of "bridge loan" or other financial arrangement, 
which may be repaid from the proceeds of the issue. 
(J) Details of balance fund deployment: Year wise break -up of the 
expenditure proposed to be incurred on the said project. 
(K) Interim use of funds: A statement that net issue proceeds pending 
utilization (for the stated objects) shall be deposited only in the scheduled 
commercial banks. 
(L) Expenses of the issue: Expenses of the issue (in terms of a mount, as a 
percentage of total issue expenses and as a percentage of total issue size) 
under the following heads: 
(1) Brokerage, selling commission and upload fees 
(2) Registrars to the issue 
(3) Legal Advisors (if any) 
(4) Advertising and marketing expenses 
(5) Regulators including stock exchanges 
(6) Printing and distribution of issue stationary 
(7) Others, if any (to be specified). 
(M) Any special tax benefits for the issuer and its shareholders and its material 
subsidiaries identified in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015.   
(N) Key Industry Regulations for the proposed objects of the issue (if different 
from existing business of the issuer). 
(O) Interest of promoters, promoter group and directors, as  applicable to the 
project or objects of the issue. 

350 
 
(XIII) Management (Board of Directors and Senior Management) and 
Organisational Structure: 
(A) Name, date of birth, age, Director Identification Number, address, 
occupation and date of expiration of the current term  of office of manager, 
managing director and other directors (including nominee directors and 
whole-time directors),  
(XIV) Financial Information of the issuer: 
One standard financial unit shall be used in the Letter of Offer. 
 
The following extract of the audit ed consolidated financial statements prepared in 
accordance with applicable accounting standards for the last financial year (with 
the comparative prior full year period) and  latest limited review financial 
statements, if any, disclosed to the stock exchange with the comparative prior year 
period shall be included in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer ( for the 
limited reviewed period, this information should not be earlier than six months 
prior to the date of the opening of the issue). The late st quarterly results disclosed 
to the public can be included in the draft letter of offer and letter of offer. 
i. Total income from operations 
ii. Net profit/loss before tax and extraordinary items 
iii. Net profit/loss after tax and extraordinary items 
iv. Equity share capital 
v. Reserves and surplus 
vi. Net worth 
vii. Basic Earnings per share 
viii. Diluted Earnings per share 
ix. Return on net worth 
x. Net Asset Value per Share 
(XV) Detailed rationale for the issue price: How the issuer has arrived at the price of the 
rights shares. 
(XVI) Government Approval s or Licensing Arrangements: All material pending 
government and regulatory approvals pertaining to the objects of the issue. 
(XVII) Other Regulatory and Statutory Disclosures: 
(a) Authority for the issue and details of the resolution passed for the issue. 

351 
 
(b) A statemen t by the issuer that the issuer, promoters, promoter group, 
directors have not been or are not prohibited from accessing or operating in 
the capital markets or restrained from buying, selling or dealing in securities 
under any order or direction passed by the Board. 
(c) A statement by the issuer if any of the directors of the issuer are associated 
with the securities market in any manner, and if yes, details of any 
outstanding action initiated by the Board against the said entities with the 
relevant details. 
(d) Disclaimer clauses: 
(e) Disclaimer in respect of jurisdiction: A brief paragraph mentioning the 
jurisdiction under which the provisions of law and the rules and regulations 
are applicable to the letter of offer. 
(f) Disclaimer clause of the stock exchanges. 
(g) Disclaimer clause of the Reserve Bank of India, the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India and of any other regulatory authority 
(if applicable). 
(h) Arrangements or any mechanism evolved by the issuer for redressal of 
investor grievances and the time normally taken by it for disposal of various 
types of investor grievances. 
(XVIII)  Offering Information: 
(1) Terms of payments and procedure and time schedule for allotment and 
demat credit of securities. 
(2) How to apply, availability of application forms and letter of  offer and mode 
of payment, including the following: 
(a) Applications by mutual funds: 
i. A statement under the heads "Procedure for applications by mutual 
funds" and "Multiple Applications" to indicate that a separate 
application can be made in respect of each s cheme of an Indian 
mutual fund registered with the Board and that such applications 

352 
 
shall not be treated as multiple applications. 
ii. A statement that the application made by an asset management 
company or by custodian of a mutual fund shall clearly indicate the 
name of the concerned scheme for which the application is being 
made. 
(b) Applications by non-resident Indians: 
i. the name and address of at least one place in India from where 
individual non-resident Indian applicants can obtain the application 
forms. 
ii. Application by ASBA investors: Details of Application Supported 
by Blocked Amount process including specific instructions for 
submitting Application Supported by Blocked Amount. 
iii. A statement that the shareholders who have not received the 
application form can ap ply, along with the requisite application 
money, by making an application that is available on the website of 
registrar, stock exchanges, lead managers or on a plain  paper with 
same details as per application form available online. 
iv. The format to enable sha reholders to make an application on a plain 
paper specifying therein necessary particulars such as name, 
address, ratio of rights issue, issue price, number of equity shares 
held, depository participant ID, client ID, number of  equity shares 
applied for, a mount to be blocked with SCSB for using ASBA 
facility. Application form available online on the website of 
registrar, stock exchanges, lead managers may be used for providing 
requisite details; 
v. A statement that shareholders making an application on a plain  
paper cannot renounce their rights and shall not utilise the 
application form for any purpose including renunciation even if it is 
received subsequently. 
(3) Dealing with Fractional Entitlement: Manner of dealing with fractional 
entitlement viz. payment of th e equivalent of the value, if any, of the 
fractional rights in cash etc. 
(4) Provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, as relating to punishment for 

353 
 
fictitious applications, including the disclosures that any person who: 
(a) makes or abets making of an application in  a fictitious name to a 
company for acquiring, or subscribing for, its securities; or 
(b) makes or abets making of multiple applications to a company in 
different names or in different combinations of his/her name or surname 
for acquiring or subscribing for its securities; or 
(c) otherwise induces directly or indirectly a company to allot, or register 
any transfer of, securities to such person, or to any other person in a 
fictitious name. 
Provided that any penalty imposed pursuant to Companies Act, 2013 
shall also be disclosed. 
(5) A statement that credit of specified securities to the demat account/ issuing 
instructions for un -blocking of ASBA shall be done within a period of 
fifteen days and interest shall be payable in case of delay in issuing 
instructions for un-blocking of ASBA at the prescribed rate. In cases where 
refunds are applicable, such refunds shall be made within a period of fifteen 
days and interest shall be payable in case of delay. Liability of issuer and its 
directors (who are officers in default) to i ssue instructions for unblocking/ 
make refunds along with specified rate of interest shall also be mentioned, 
in case refunds are not made within the specified timeline.  
(6) Mode of making refunds: 
a) The mode in which the issuer shall make refunds to applicants in case of 
an oversubscription or failure to list or otherwise. 
b) If the issuer proposes to use more than one mode of making refunds to 
applicants, the respective cases where each such mode will be adopted 
shall be disclosed. 
c) The permissible modes of making refunds are as follows: 
i. Unblocking amounts blocked using ASBA facility; 
ii.  In case of applicants residing in any of the centres specified by the 
Board: by crediting of refunds to the bank accounts of applicants 
through electronic transfer of funds by using Direct Credit, RTGS 
(Real Time Gross Settlement) or NEFT (National Electronic Funds 
Transfer) or NACH (National Automated Clearing House), as 

354 
 
applicable, as is for the time being permitted by the Reserve Bank 
of India; 
iii.  In case of other applicants: by despatch of refund orders by registered 
post, where the value is ₹1500 or more, or under certificate of 
posting in other cases, (subject however to postal rules); and  
iv.  In case of any category of applicants specified by the Board: crediting 
of refunds to the applicants in any electronic manner permissible by 
the Board. 
(7) Basis of Allotment: Allotment shall be made in the following manner- 
i. Full allotment to those eligible shareholders who have applied for 
their Rights Entitlement either in full or in part and also to the 
renouncee(s), who has or have applied for the specifi ed securities in 
their favour, in full or in part, as adjusted for fractional entitlement. 
ii. Allotment to eligible shareholders who having applied for the 
specified securities in full to extent of their Rights Entitlement and 
have also applied for additional  specified securities, shall be made as 
far as possible on an equitable basis having due regard to the number 
of specified securities held by them on record date, provided there is 
an under-subscribed portion after making allotment in (i) above. 
iii. Allotment to the renouncee(s), who having applied for the specified 
securities renounced in their favour and also applied for additional 
specified securities, provided there is an under -subscribed portion 
after making full allotment specified in (i) and (ii) above. The 
allotment of such additional specified securities may be made on a 
proportionate basis. 
iv. Allotment to specific investor(s) or to any other person, subject to 
applicable laws, that the board of issuer may deem fit, provided there 
is an under -subscribed p ortion after making allotment under (i), (ii) 
and (iii) above. 
(XIX)  Undertakings by the issuer in connection with the issue: The issuer shall 
undertake that: 
a) complaints received in respect of the issue shall be attended to by 
the issuer expeditiously and satisfactorily. 

355 
 
b) steps for completion of the necessary formalities for listing and 
commencement of trading at all stock exchanges where the specified 
securities are to be listed are taken within the time limit specified by 
the Board. 
c) funds required for making re funds to unsuccessful applicants as per 
the mode(s) disclosed shall be made available to the Registrar to the 
issue by the issuer. 
d) where refunds are made through electronic transfer of funds, a 
suitable communication shall be sent to the applicant within 1 5 days 
of closure of the issue giving details of the bank where refunds shall 
be credited along with amount and expected date of electronic credit 
of refund. 
e) where release of block on the application amount for unsuccessful 
bidders or part of the applicati on amount in case of proportionate 
allotment, a suitable communication shall be sent to the applicants. 
f) adequate arrangements shall be made to collect all ASBA 
applications 
g) in case of convertible debt instruments, the issuer shall additionally 
undertake that: 
i. it shall forward the details of utilisation of the funds raised 
through the convertible debt instruments, duly certified by 
the statutory auditors of the issuer, to the debenture trustee at 
the end of each half-year. 
ii. it shall disclose the name and addr ess of the debenture 
trustee in the annual report. 
iii. it shall provide a compliance certificate to the convertible 
debt instrument holders on a yearly basis in respect of 
compliance with the terms and conditions of issue of 
debentures as contained in the Lett er of Offer, duly certified 
by the debenture trustee. 
iv. it shall furnish a confirmation certificate that the security 
created by the issuer in favour of the convertible debt 
instrument holders is properly maintained and is adequate to 
meet the payment obliga tions towards the convertible debt 
instrument holders in the event of a default. 

356 
 
v. it shall extend necessary cooperation to the credit rating 
agency(ies) in providing the requisite information in a true 
and adequate manner till the debt obligations in respec t of 
the instrument are outstanding. 
(XX) Utilisation of Issue Proceeds: The letter of offer, other than for an issue made by 
a scheduled commercial bank or a public financial institution, shall contain a 
statement of the board of directors of the issuer to the effect that: 
A. all monies received out of issue of shares or specified securities to the 
public shall be transferred to a separate bank account. 
B. details of all monies utilised out of the issue referred to in clause (A) shall 
be disclosed under an appropriat e separate head in the balance sheet of 
the issuer indicating the purpose for which such monies had been utilised; 
and 
C. details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of specified securities 
referred to in clause (A) shall be disclosed under an appropria te separate 
head in the balance sheet of the issuer indicating the form in which such 
unutilised monies have been invested. 
(XXI) Restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian securities, if any: 
a) Investment by NRIs. 
b) Investment by foreign portfolio investors and fo reign venture capital  
investors. 
c) Investment by other non-residents. 
(XXII) Statutory and other information: 
A. Allotment of specified securities shall be in the demateralised form. 
B. Material contracts and time and place of inspection which shall include 
copies of the Annual Reports of the issuer for the last three years: 
        Provided that the material contracts shall also be made available for 
inspection through online means. 
 
(XXIII)  Any other material disclosures, as deemed necessary. 

357 
 
(XXIV)  Declaration: 
“No statement made i n this letter of offer contravenes any of the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder. All the legal 
requirements connected with the issue as also the guidelines, instructions, etc., 
issued by SEBI, Government and any other comp etent authority in this behalf, 
have been duly complied with.” 
 
The draft letter of offer and the letter of offer shall be approved by the Board of 
Directors of the issuer and shall be signed by all directors including the 
Managing Director within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 or Manager 
within the meaning of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Chief Financial Officer 
or any other person heading the finance function and discharging that function. 
The signatories shall further certify that all disclosures made in the letter of offer 
are true and correct. 
(XXV) An issuer shall make a copy of the offer document of the immediately preceding 
public issue or rights issue available to the public in the manner specified in these 
regulations and shall also make such d ocument available as a material document 
for inspection.] 
 
 
693[****] 
 
Part C - Certain disclosures not mandatory in case of a further public offer 
[See regulation 123(2)(d), 186(3)(d), 218(2), 220(1)] 
 
(1) An issuer making a further public off er of specified securities may not make the disclosures 
indicated hereunder and specified in Part A of this Schedule, subject to fulfilment of the 
conditions specified in para 2: 
(i) Para (a) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section; 
(ii) Para (f) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section; 
(iii) Para (h) of sub-item (F) of item (10) under management section; 
 
 
693 Part B-1 omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.04.2025.  
 

358 
 
(2) The conditions referred to in para (1) above are as follows: 
(a) The issuer has been filing periodic statements in regard to financia l results and 
shareholding pattern with the designated stock exchange and also with the Registrar of 
Companies (in case of a public issue), for the last three years and such statements are 
available on the website of the designated stock exchange or on a c ommon e -filing 
platform; 
(b) The issuer has in place an investor grievance handling mechanism, which includes 
meeting of the Shareholders/Investors’ Grievance Committee at frequent intervals, 
appropriate delegation of power by the board of directors of the iss uer with regard to 
share transfer and clearly laid out systems and procedures for timely and satisfactory 
redressal of investor grievances; 
(c) The lead manager(s) has certified that the conditions specified at (a) and (b) above have 
been complied with; 
(d) The issuer has furnished to the Board the following undertaking along with the draft 
offer document, which shall also be incorporated in the offer document: 
“We confirm that other than the disclosures made in this offer document, nothing 
material has changed in respect of disclosures made by us at the time of our previous 
issue made on ……….” 
(e) The issuer has made the offer document of its immediately preceding public or rights 
issue public in the manner specified in  sub-regulation (4) of regulation 26 and/or  sub -
regulation (4) of regulation 72, as applicable, and has also kept this document for public 
inspection in the manner specified in para (e) of sub-item (E) of Item ( 10) of Part A of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part D - Certain disclosures not mandatory in case of a fast track public issue 
 
An issuer making a fast track public issue of specified securities may not make the disclosures 
indicated hereunder and specified in Part A of this Schedule: 
(1) Para (a) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section; 
(2) Para (f) of sub-item (B) of item (8) under capital structure section; 
(3) Para (h) of sub-item (F) of item (10) under management section; 
(4) Sub-para (ii) of para ( a) of sub -item (G) of item ( 10) under promoter/ principle shareholder 
section; 
(5) Sub-para (iv) of para (b) of  sub-item (G) of item (10) under promoter/ principle shareholder 
section  

359 
 
 
Part E - Disclosures in an abridged prospectus 
[See regulation 34(1) 694[***] and 131(1)] 
 
An abridged prospectus shall contain information as is material and appropriate to enable 
investors to make an informed decision, and shall be as per the format and order specified by the 
Board in Annexure I. 
General Instructions: 
(I) A copy of the abridged prospectus shall be submitted to the Board. 
(II) Information which is of a generic nature and not s pecific to the issuer shall be provided in 
the form of a General Information Document (GID) as specified by the Board  and which 
shall be available separately and not be included in the draft offer document and offer 
document. 
(III) The abridged prospectus shall be printed in a booklet form of A4 size paper and, along 
with the application form and revision form, shall not exceed five sheets, printed both 
sides. Additional sheets may be appended for bidding centres. 
(IV) The abridged prospectus shall be printed in a fon t size which shall not be visually smaller 
than Times New Roman size 11 (or equivalent) with 1.0 line spacing. 
(V) The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the application form, 
no part of the abridged prospectus is mutilated. 
 
 
 
694 Omitted by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2020 
w.e.f. 28.09.2020. Prior to omission it read as “, 71(2)(d)”. 

360 
 
 
 

361 
 
 
 
In case of issues by Small and Medium Enterprises under Chapter IX, details of the market maker 
to be included  
 

362 
 
 
 

363 
 
 

364 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

365 
 
RESTATED AUDITED FINANCIALS     
  
Standalone695      
 Latest Stub  
period  
FY 3  
(Last audited 
financial year 
prior to iss ue 
opening)  
FY 2  FY 1  
Total income from operations 
(net)  
    
Net Profit / (Loss) before tax and  
extraordinary items  
    
Net Profit / (Loss) after tax and  
extraordinary items  
    
Equity Share Capital      
Reserves and Surplus      
Net worth      
Basic e arnings per share (Rs.)      
Diluted earnings per share (Rs.)      
Return on net worth (%)      
Net asset value per share (Rs.)      
 
 
Consolidated 696 
 
 Latest Stub  
period  
FY 3  
(Last audited 
financial year 
prior to issue 
opening)  
FY 2  FY 1  
Total income from  operations (Net)      
Net Profit/(Loss) before tax and  
extraordinary items  
    
Net Profit / (Loss) after tax and  
extraordinary items  
    
Equity Share Capital      
Reserves and Surplus      
Net worth      
Basic earnings per share (Rs.)      
Diluted earni ngs per share (Rs.)      
 
 
695 The columns for “FY4” and “ FY5 (Last audited financial year prior to issue opening)” omitted and column for 
“FY3” substituted for “FY3 (Last audited financial year prior to issue opening)”  by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022 . 
696 The columns for “FY4” and “ FY5 (Last a udited financial year prior to issue opening)” omitted and column for 
“FY3” substituted for “FY3 (Last audited financial year prior to issue opening)”  by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f. 14.1.2022. 

366 
 
Return on net worth (%)      
Net asset value per share (Rs.)      
 
 

367 
 
 
 
 
697[****] 
 
SCHEDULE VII - DISCLOSURES IN A PLACEMENT DOCUMENT 
[See regulations175(2)] 
 
 
 
 
697 Part-F omitted  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 08.03.2025.  
 